# <u>Reading1. Static Checking</u>

## Java and Python side by side

```java
// Java
int n = 3;
while (n != 1) {
    System.out.println(n);
    if (n % 2 == 0) {
        n = n / 2;
    } else {
        n = 3 * n + 1;
    }
}
System.out.println(n);
```

```python
# Python
n = 3
while n != 1:
    print n
    if n % 2 == 0:
        n = n / 2
    else:
        n = 3 * n + 1
print n
```

- Format
	- Java requires *semicolons* at the ends of statements.
	- Java requires *parentheses* around the conditions of the `if `and `while `.
	- Java requires *curly braces* around blocks, instead of indentation.
- Types
	- primitive types
		- `int `(for integers like 5 and -200, but limited to the range ± 2^31, or roughly ± 2 billion)
		- `long `(for larger integers up to ± 2^63)
		- `boolean `(for true or false)
		- `double `(for floating-point numbers, which represent a subset of the real numbers)
		- `char `(for single characters like `'A' `and `'$' `)
	- Object types
		- `String `represents a sequence of characters, like a Python string.
		- `BigInteger `represents an integer of arbitrary size, so it acts like a Python integer.
	- Syntaxes for operation
		- *As an infix, prefix, or postfix operator.* For example, `a + b `invokes the operation `+ : int × int → int `.
		- *As a method of an object.* For example, `bigint1.add(bigint2) `calls the operation `add: BigInteger × BigInteger → BigInteger `.
		- *As a function.* For example, `Math.sin(theta) `calls the operation `sin: double → double `. Here, `Math `is not an object. It’s the class that contains the `sin `function.
	- Overload
		- Some operations are **overloaded** in the sense that the same operation name is used for different types. The arithmetic operators `+ `, `- `, `* `, `/ `are heavily overloaded for the numeric primitive types in Java.

## Static Checking, Dynamic Checking

- **Static checking** : the bug is found automatically before the program even runs.
	- Static checking tends to be about types, errors that are independent of the specific value that a variable has
		- syntax errors, like extra punctuation or spurious words. Even dynamically-typed languages like Python do this kind of static checking. If you have an indentation error in your Python program, you’ll find out before the program starts running.
		- wrong names, like `Math.sine(2) `. (The right name is `sin `.)
		- wrong number of arguments, like `Math.sin(30, 20) `.
		- wrong argument types, like `Math.sin("30") `.
		- wrong return types, like `return "30"; `from a function that’s declared to return an `int `.
- **Dynamic checking** : the bug is found automatically when the code is executed.
	- Dynamic checking, by contrast, tends to be about errors caused by specific values.
		- illegal argument values. For example, the integer expression `x/y `is only erroneous when `y `is actually zero; otherwise it works. So in this expression, divide-by-zero is not a static error, but a dynamic error.
		- unrepresentable return values, i.e., when the specific return value can’t be represented in the type.
		- out-of-range indexes, e.g., using a negative or too-large index on a string.
		- calling a method on a `null `object reference ( `null `is like Python `None `).

##  Primitive Types Are Not True Numbers

- **Integer division** . `5/2 `does not return a fraction
- **Integer overflow** . The `int `and `long `types are actually finite sets of integers
- **Special values in `float `and `doubles `**. `NaN `(which stands for “Not a Number”), `POSITIVE_INFINITY `, and `NEGATIVE_INFINITY`

## Arrays and Collections

### Arrays

- Declaration
	- `int[] a = new int[100];`
- Operation
	- indexing: `a[2]`
	- assignment: `a[2]=0`
	- length: `a.length `(note that this is different syntax from `String.length() `– `a.length `is not a method call, so you don’t put parentheses after it)

```java
int[] a = new int[100];  // <==== DANGER WILL ROBINSON
int i = 0;
int n = 3;
while (n != 1) {
    a[i] = n;
    i++;  // very common shorthand for i=i+1
    if (n % 2 == 0) {
        n = n / 2;
    } else {
        n = 3 * n + 1;
    }
}
a[i] = n;
i++;
```

### List

- Declaration
	- `List<Integer> list = new ArrayList<Integer>();`
- Operation
	- indexing: `list.get(2)`
	- assignment: `list.set(2, 0)`
	- length: `list.size()`
- interface and Implementation
	-  `List `is an *interface*, a type that can’t be constructed directly with new, but that instead specifies the operations that a List must provide.
	- `ArrayList `isn’t the only *implementation* of the List type, though it’s the most commonly used one. `LinkedList `is another. 
- Primitive types
	- we wrote `List<Integer> `instead of `List<int> `. 
	- Java requires us to use these object type equivalents when we parameterize a type with angle brackets.

```java
List<Integer> list = new ArrayList<Integer>();
int n = 3;
while (n != 1) {
    list.add(n);
    if (n % 2 == 0) {
        n = n / 2;
    } else {
        n = 3 * n + 1;
    }
}
list.add(n);
```

## Iterating

```java
// find the maximum point of a hailstone sequence stored in list
int max = 0;
for (int x : list) {
    max = Math.max(x, max);
}
```

- The `Math `class

## Methods

**In Java, statements generally have to be inside a method, and every method has to be in a class**

```java
public class Hailstone {
  /**
   * Compute a hailstone sequence.
   * @param n  Starting number for sequence.  Assumes n > 0.
   * @return hailstone sequence starting with n and ending with 1.
   */
  public static List<Integer> hailstoneSequence(int n) {
    List<Integer> list = new ArrayList<Integer>();
    while (n != 1) {
        list.add(n);
        if (n % 2 == 0) {
            n = n / 2;
        } else {
            n = 3 * n + 1;
        }
    }
    list.add(n);
    return list;
  }
}
```

- `public `means that any code, anywhere in your program, can refer to the class or method.

- `static `means that the method doesn’t take a self parameter

	- to call a static method uses the class name instead of an object reference:

		`Hailstone.hailstoneSequence(83)`

## Mutating Values vs. Reassigning Variables

- immutable references
	- `final int n = 5;`

## Documenting Assumptions

- some ways
	- Writing the *type* of a variable down documents an assumption
	- Declaring a variable *final* is also a form of documentation
	- We documented another assumption that Java (unfortunately) doesn’t check automatically: that n must be positive.
- Programs have to be written with two goals
	- communicating with the computer.
	- communicating with other people. Making the program easy to understand, so that when somebody has to fix it, improve it, or adapt it in the future, they can do so.

## The Goal of 6.005

Software engineering is not hacking. Engineers are pessimists:

- Good: write a little bit at a time, testing as you go. In a future class, we’ll talk about test-first programming.
- Good: document the assumptions that your code depends on
- Good: defend your code against stupidity – especially your own! Static checking helps with that.

Our primary goal in this course is learning how to produce software that is:

- **Safe from bugs** . Correctness (correct behavior right now), and defensiveness (correct behavior in the future).
- **Easy to understand** . Has to communicate to future programmers who need to understand it and make changes in it (fixing bugs or adding new features). That future programmer might be you, months or years from now.
- **Ready for change** . Software always changes. Some designs make it easy to make changes; others require throwing away and rewriting a lot of code.

Static Checking

- **Safe from bugs.** Static checking helps with safety by catching type errors and other bugs before runtime.
- **Easy to understand.** It helps with understanding, because types are explicitly stated in the code.
- **Ready for change.** Static checking makes it easier to change your code by identifying other places that need to change in tandem. For example, when you change the name or type of a variable, the compiler immediately displays errors at all the places where that variable is used, reminding you to update them as well.



## *Thinking*

这一讲通过和Python的区别介绍了Java的一些特性

- Static Checking：（类似C）在不运行程序的条件下进行程序分析。因此对于变量类型的定义有助于分析。
	- 也包含变量的scope（ `static` 作用范围）以及reference mutability（ `final`引用可变性）的定义
		- `static` 定义方法或变量的scope是类的还是实例的
		- `final` 定义变量的引用（指针的指向）是否可变
- Java中一切都是class和object（除了primitive types）



# <u>Reading2. Basic Java</u>

| Safe from bugs                                   | Easy to understand                                           | Ready for change                                  |
| :----------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
| Correct today and correct in the unknown future. | Communicating clearly with future programmers, including future you. | Designed to accommodate change without rewriting. |

# Variables

- **Instance Variables (Non-Static Fields)**
- **Class Variables (Static Fields)**
	- A *class variable* is any field declared with the `static` modifier; this tells the compiler that there is exactly one copy of this variable in existence, regardless of how many times the class has been instantiated.
- **Local Variables**
- **Parameters**

### Naming

- Variable names are case-sensitive
	- convention: always begin your variable names with a letter, not "`$`" or "`_`".
- Subsequent characters may be letters, digits, dollar signs, or underscore characters.
	- convention: use full words instead of cryptic abbreviations
	- convention: If the name you choose consists of only one word, spell that word in all lowercase letters. If it consists of more than one word, capitalize the first letter of each subsequent word

## Primitive Data Types

- byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean, char

- `java.lang.String`

### Default Values

- Fields that are declared but not initialized will be set to a reasonable default by the compiler.
	- local varaible cannot be initialized by the compiler

| **Data Type**          | **Default Value (for fields)** |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| byte                   | 0                              |
| short                  | 0                              |
| int                    | 0                              |
| long                   | 0L                             |
| float                  | 0.0f                           |
| double                 | 0.0d                           |
| char                   | '\u0000'                       |
| String (or any object) | null                           |
| boolean                | false                          |

### Literals

- the `new` keyword isn't used when initializing a variable of a primitive type
- A *literal* is the source code representation of a fixed value; literals are represented directly in your code without requiring computation

#### Integer Literals

```
// The number 26, in decimal
int decVal = 26;
//  The number 26, in hexadecimal
int hexVal = 0x1a;
// The number 26, in binary
int binVal = 0b11010;
```

#### Floating-Point Literals

```
double d1 = 123.4;
// same value as d1, but in scientific notation
double d2 = 1.234e2;
float f1  = 123.4f;
```

#### Character and String Literals



#### Using Underscore Characters in Numeric Literals (readability)

```
long creditCardNumber = 1234_5678_9012_3456L;
long socialSecurityNumber = 999_99_9999L;
float pi =  3.14_15F;
long hexBytes = 0xFF_EC_DE_5E;
long hexWords = 0xCAFE_BABE;
long maxLong = 0x7fff_ffff_ffff_ffffL;
byte nybbles = 0b0010_0101;
long bytes = 0b11010010_01101001_10010100_10010010;
```

## Arrays

- Declaring, Initializing

	- `float anArrayOfFloats[];`

	- `anArray = new int[10];`

	- ```java
		int[] anArray = { 
		    100, 200, 300,
		    400, 500, 600, 
		    700, 800, 900, 1000
		};
		```

	- ```java
		String[][] names = {
		  {"Mr. ", "Mrs. ", "Ms. "},
		  {"Smith", "Jones"}
		```

- Copy

	- ```java
		public static void arraycopy(Object src, int srcPos,
		                             Object dest, int destPos, int length)
		```

	- `System.arraycopy(copyFrom, 2, copyTo, 0, 7);`

- Manipulation

	- `java.util.Arrays` class

# Operators

## Simple Assignment Operator

```
=       Simple assignment operator
```

## Arithmetic Operators

| Operator | Description                                            |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `+`      | Additive operator (also used for String concatenation) |
| `-`      | Subtraction operator                                   |
| `*`      | Multiplication operator                                |
| `/`      | Division operator                                      |
| `%`      | Remainder operator                                     |

## Unary Operators

| Operator | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `+`      | Unary plus operator; indicates positive value (numbers are positive without this, however) |
| `-`      | Unary minus operator; negates an expression                  |
| `++`     | Increment operator; increments a value by 1 <br />(the prefix version (`++result`) evaluates to the incremented value, whereas the postfix version (`result++`) evaluates to the original value) |
| `--`     | Decrement operator; decrements a value by 1                  |
| `!`      | Logical complement operator; inverts the value of a boolean  |

## Equality and Relational Operators

```
==      Equal to
!=      Not equal to
>       Greater than
>=      Greater than or equal to
<       Less than
<=      Less than or equal to
```

## Conditional Operators

```
&&      Conditional-AND
||      Conditional-OR
?:      Ternary (shorthand for if-then-else statement)
```

## Type Comparison Operator

```
instanceof      Compares an object to a specified type 
```

## Bitwise and Bit Shift Operators

```
~       Unary bitwise complement
<<      Signed left shift
>>      Signed right shift
>>>     Unsigned right shift
&       Bitwise AND
^       Bitwise exclusive OR
|       Bitwise inclusive OR
```

# Expressions, Statements, and Blocks

**Operators may be used in building expressions, which compute values; expressions are the core components of statements; statements may be grouped into blocks.**

## Expressions

**An *expression* is a construct made up of variables, operators, and method invocations that evaluates to a single value.**

```java
int cadence = 0;
anArray[0] = 100;
System.out.println("Element 1 at index 0: " + anArray[0]);

int result = 1 + 2; // result is now 3
if (value1 == value2) 
    System.out.println("value1 == value2");
```

## Statements

**A *statement* forms a complete unit of execution**

- expression statements
	- expressions that can be made into a statement by terminating the expression with a semicolon (`;`).
- declaration statements
	- A *declaration statement* declares a variable
- control flow statements
	- *control flow statements* regulate the order in which statements get executed

## Blocks

A *block* is a group of zero or more statements between balanced braces and can be used anywhere a single statement is allowed.

# Control Flow Statements

## The for Statement

```java
// 1st form
for (initialization; termination;
     increment) {
    statement(s)
}

// 2nd form
int[] numbers = 
	{1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10};
for (int item : numbers) {
	System.out.println("Count is: " + item);
```



# Classes and Objects

- Class elements
	- A class declaration names the class and encloses the class body between braces. 
	- The class name can be preceded by modifiers. 
	- The class body contains fields, methods, and constructors for the class. 
		- A class uses fields to contain state information and uses methods to implement behavior. 
		- Constructors that initialize a new instance of a class use the name of the class and look like methods without a return type.
- `public`
	- You control access to classes and members in the same way: by using an access modifier such as `public` in their declaration.
- `static`
	- You specify a class variable or a class method by using the `static` keyword in the member's declaration. 
		- Class variables are shared by all instances of a class and can be accessed through the class name as well as an instance reference.
	- A member that is not declared as `static` is implicitly an instance member. 
		- Instances of a class get their own copy of each instance variable, which must be accessed through an instance reference.
- Object
	- You create an object from a class by using the `new` operator and a constructor. The new operator returns a reference to the object that was created. You can assign the reference to a variable or use it directly.
- Instance variables and methods
	- `objectReference.variableName`
	- `objectReference.methodName(argumentList)`



# Numbers

- Wrapper classes
	- You use one of the wrapper classes – `Byte`, `Double`, `Float`, `Integer`, `Long`, or `Short` – to wrap a number of primitive type in an object. The Java compiler automatically wraps (boxes) primitives for you when necessary and unboxes them, again when necessary.
-  `Number` classes
	- The `Number` classes include constants and useful class methods. The `MIN_VALUE` and `MAX_VALUE` constants contain the smallest and largest values that can be contained by an object of that type. The `byteValue`, `shortValue`, and similar methods convert one numeric type to another. The `valueOf` method converts a string to a number, and the `toString` method converts a number to a string.
- Format
	- To format a string containing numbers for output, you can use the `printf()` or `format()` methods in the `PrintStream` class. Alternatively, you can use the `NumberFormat` class to customize numerical formats using patterns.
-  `Math` class
	- The `Math` class contains a variety of class methods for performing mathematical functions, including exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric methods. `Math` also includes basic arithmetic functions, such as absolute value and rounding, and a method, `random()`, for generating random numbers.



# <u>Lab1. Warmup</u>

## *Thinking*

这个lab主要是熟悉java的构架，java有很成熟的IDE，因为Eclipse太丑了，我选择了IntelliJ IDEA。

- 有几个部分组成：
	- 一个project下可以有多个module
	- module内包含source code部分和test部分
	- 几个pset还都包含了一个xml文件用Ant来运行作为提交作业的自动化程序
- 我的方法是
	- 将整个6.005的文件夹作为project，同时作为git的一个repository
	- 将每个pset作为一个module

另外还熟悉了git的操作，确实很有帮助，可以比较不同文件间的差异，可以完全返回之前的版本，可以commit单独的文件，也可以commit整个project

- 我计划这么操作
	- 做作业的过程中commit单个修改的文件
	- 一天结束后或pset结束后commit整个module或project
	- 每天push一次

























































