# <u>Reading 3: Testing</u>

- 1 - 10 defects/kloc: Typical industry software.
- 0.1 - 1 defects/kloc: High-quality validation. The Java libraries might achieve this level of correctness.
- 0.01 - 0.1 defects/kloc: The very best, safety-critical validation. NASA and companies like Praxis can achieve this level.

### Why Software Testing is Hard

- **Exhaustive testing** is infeasible
- **Haphazard testing** (“just try it and see if it works”) is less likely to find bugs
- **Random or statistical testing** doesn’t work well for software. Other engineering disciplines can test small random samples and infer the defect rate for the whole production lot.
	- Software exhibits discontinuous behavior, unlike many physically-engineered systems.

## Test-first Programming

The development of a single function proceeds in this order:

1. Write a specification for the function.
2. Write tests that exercise the specification.
3. Write the actual code. Once your code passes the tests you wrote, you’re done.

## Choosing Test Cases by Partitioning

#### Example: `BigInteger.multiply()`

- We might start with these partitions:
	- a and b are both positive
	- a and b are both negative
	- a is positive, b is negative
	- a is negative, b is positive
- There are also some special cases for multiplication that we should check: 0, 1, and -1.
	- a or b is 0, 1, or -1
- BigInteger might try to make it faster by using `int `or `long `internally when possible
	- a or b is small
	- the absolute value of a or b is bigger than `Long.MAX_VALUE `, the biggest possible primitive integer in Java, which is roughly 2^63.

We’ll choose `a `and `b `independently from:

- 0
- 1
- -1
- small positive integer
- small negative integer
- huge positive integer
- huge negative integer

**So this will produce 7 × 7 = 49 partitions that completely cover the space of pairs of integers.**

### Include Boundaries in the Partition

Bugs often occur at *boundaries* between subdomains. Some examples:

- 0 is a boundary between positive numbers and negative numbers
- the maximum and minimum values of numeric types, like `int `and `double`
- emptiness (the empty string, empty list, empty array) for collection types
- the first and last element of a collection

#### Example: `max()`

Partition into:

- relationship between a and b
	- a < b
	- a = b
	- a > b
- value of a
	- a = 0
	- a < 0
	- a > 0
	- a = minimum integer
	- a = maximum integer
- value of b
	- b = 0
	- b < 0
	- b > 0
	- b = minimum integer
	- b = maximum integer

Now let’s pick test values that cover all these classes:

- (1, 2) covers a < b, a > 0, b > 0
- (-1, -3) covers a > b, a < 0, b < 0
- (0, 0) covers a = b, a = 0, b = 0
- (Integer.MIN_VALUE, Integer.MAX_VALUE) covers a < b, a = minint, b = maxint
- (Integer.MAX_VALUE, Integer.MIN_VALUE) covers a > b, a = maxint, b = minint

### Two Extremes for Covering the Partition

- **Full Cartesian product.** 
	- the `multiply `example, and it gave us 7 × 7 = 49 test cases.
- **Cover each part.** Every part of each dimension is covered by at least one test case
	- the test suite for `max `might be as small as 5 test cases if carefully chosen.

## Blackbox and Whitebox Testing

- **Blackbox testing** means choosing test cases only from the specification, not the implementation of the function.
- **Whitebox testing** (also called glass box testing) means choosing test cases with knowledge of how the function is actually implemented. e.g.
	- If the implementation selects different algorithms depending on the input, then you should partition according to those domains.
	- If the implementation keeps an internal cache that remembers the answers to previous inputs, then you should test repeated inputs.

## Documenting Your Testing Strategy

```java

/**
 * Reverses the end of a string.
 *
 * For example:
 *   reverseEnd("Hello, world", 5)
 *   returns "Hellodlrow ,"
 *
 * With start == 0, reverses the entire text.
 * With start == text.length(), reverses nothing.
 *
 * @param text    non-null String that will have
 *                its end reversed
 * @param start   the index at which the
 *                remainder of the input is
 *                reversed, requires 0 <=
 *                start <= text.length()
 * @return input text with the substring from
 *               start to the end of the string
 *               reversed
 */
static String reverseEnd(String text, int start)
```

```java
// Document the strategy at the top of the test class:

/*
 * Testing strategy
 *
 * Partition the inputs as follows:
 * text.length(): 0, 1, > 1
 * start:         0, 1, 1 < start < text.length(),
 *                text.length() - 1, text.length()
 * text.length()-start: 0, 1, even > 1, odd > 1
 *
 * Include even- and odd-length reversals because
 * only odd has a middle element that doesn't move.
 *
 * Exhaustive Cartesian coverage of partitions.
 */
Document how each test case was chosen, including white box tests:

// covers test.length() = 0,
//        start = 0 = text.length(),
//        text.length()-start = 0
@Test public void testEmpty() {
    assertEquals("", reverseEnd("", 0));
}

// ... other test cases ...
```



## Coverage

- **Statement coverage** : is every statement run by some test case?
- **Branch coverage** : for every `if `or `while `statement in the program, are both the true and the false direction taken by some test case?
- **Path coverage** : is every possible combination of branches — every path through the program — taken by some test case?

A standard approach to testing is to add tests until the test suite achieves adequate statement coverage. In practice, statement coverage is usually measured by a **<u>code coverage tool</u>**, which counts the number of times each statement is run by your test suite.

## Unit Testing and Stubs

- A test that tests an individual module, in isolation if possible, is called a **unit test** .
- The opposite of a unit test is an **integration test** , which tests a combination of modules, or even the entire program.

## Automated Testing and Regression Testing

The result of the test driver should be either “all tests OK” or “these tests failed: …” A good testing framework, like **<u>*JUnit*</u>**, helps you build automated test suites.

Running all your tests after every change is called **<u>*regression testing*</u>** .

Whenever you find and fix a bug, take the input that elicited the bug and add it to your automated test suite as a test case. This kind of test case is called a ***<u>regression test</u>*** .

This idea also leads to ***<u>test-first debugging</u>*** . When a bug arises, immediately write a test case for it that elicits it, and immediately add it to your test suite.

## Summary

In this reading, we saw these ideas:

- Test-first programming. Write tests before you write code.
- Partitioning and boundaries for choosing test cases systematically.
- White box testing and statement coverage for filling out a test suite.
- Unit-testing each module, in isolation as much as possible.
- Automated regression testing to keep bugs from coming back.

The topics of today’s reading connect to our three key properties of good software as follows:

- **Safe from bugs.** Testing is about finding bugs in your code, and test-first programming is about finding them as early as possible, immediately after you introduced them.
- **Easy to understand.** Testing doesn’t help with this as much as code review does.
- **Ready for change.** Readiness for change was considered by writing tests that only depend on behavior in the spec. We also talked about automated regression testing, which helps keep bugs from coming back when changes are made to code.

## *Thinking*

这篇阅读主要讨论了测试，提出了测试优先编程，即写代码前先写测试。

- 选择测试实例的方法是Partitioning（分区），只需确保测试实例覆盖了所有分区
- 在white box testing（白盒测试）中，coverage是一个有用的工具
- 测试策略的记录，也是一种specification
- 单元测试
- 自动回归测试（regression testing）



# <u>Reading 4: Code Review</u>

## Code Review

Code review really has two purposes:

- **Improving the code.**
- **Improving the programmer.**

#### Style Standards

- It’s important to be self-consistent
- it’s *very* important to follow the conventions of the project you’re working on. 
	- If you’re the programmer who reformats every module you touch to match your personal style, your teammates will hate you, and rightly so. 
	- Be a team player.

### Don’t Repeat Yourself

The longer the block you’re copying, the riskier it is.

### Comments Where Needed

In Java, this is conventionally written as a Javadoc comment, meaning that it starts with `/** `and includes `@ `-syntax, like `@param `and `@return `for methods. Here’s an example of a spec:

```java
/**
 * Compute the hailstone sequence.
 * See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collatz_conjecture#Statement_of_the_problem
 * @param n starting number of sequence; requires n > 0.
 * @return the hailstone sequence starting at n and ending with 1.
 *         For example, hailstone(3)=[3,10,5,16,8,4,2,1].
 */
public static List<Integer> hailstoneSequence(int n) {
    ...
}
```

Another crucial comment is one that specifies the provenance or source of a piece of code that was copied or adapted from elsewhere.

```java
// read a web page into a string
// see http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4328711/read-url-to-string-in-few-lines-of-java-code
String mitHomepage = new Scanner(new URL("http://www.mit.edu").openStream(), "UTF-8").useDelimiter("\\A").next();
```

### Fail Fast

### Avoid Magic Numbers

### One Purpose For Each Variable

- Don’t reuse parameters, and don’t reuse variables.

- Method parameters, in particular, should generally be left unmodified.

	- It’s a good idea to use `final `for method parameters, and as many other variables as you can.

	- ```java
		public static int dayOfYear(final int month, final int dayOfMonth, final int year) {
		    ...
		}
		```

### Use Good Names

Follow the lexical naming conventions of the language. In Python, classes are typically Capitalized, variables are lowercase, and words_are_separated_by_underscores. In Java:

- methodsAreNamedWithCamelCaseLikeThis
	- Method names are usually verb phrases, like `getDate `or `isUpperCase `
- variablesAreAlsoCamelCase
	- Variable names are usually noun phrases
- CONSTANTS_ARE_IN_ALL_CAPS_WITH_UNDERSCORES
- ClassesAreCapitalized
	- Class names are usually noun phrases
- packages.are.lowercase.and.separated.by.dots

- **Choose short words, and be concise, but avoid abbreviations.**
	- many of your teammates in class and in the real world will not be native English speakers, and abbreviations can be even harder for non-native speakers.

### Use Whitespace to Help the Reader

We’re not saying you should never press the Tab key, only that your editor should never put a tab character into your source file in response to your pressing the Tab key.

**Always set your programming editor to insert space characters when you press the Tab key.**

### Don’t Use Global Variables

A global variable is:

- a *variable* , a name whose meaning can be changed
- that is *global* , accessible and changeable from anywhere in the program.

In Java, a global variable is declared `public static `. The `public `modifier makes it accessible anywhere, and `static `means there is a single instance of the variable.

### Methods Should Return Results, not Print Them

**In general, only the highest-level parts of a program should interact with the human user or the console.**

## Summary

General principles of good code:

- Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY)
- Comments where needed
- Fail fast
- Avoid magic numbers
- One purpose for each variable
- Use good names
- No global variables
- Return results, don’t print them
- Use whitespace for readability

## *Thinking*

这一讲介绍了code style（代码风格），基本原则和python是一致的，这里更详细地分门别类地进行了讲解。



# <u>Reading 5: Version Control</u>

## Inventing version control

### Single Developer

- *reverting* to a past version
- *comparing* two different versions
- *pushing* full version history to another location
- *pulling* history back from that location
- *merging* versions that are offshoots of the same earlier version

### Multiple developers

## Version control and the big three

How does version control relate to the three big ideas of 6.005?

- Safe from bugs

	find when and where something broke 
	look for other, similar mistakes 
	gain confidence that code hasn’t changed accidentally  

- Easy to understand

	why was a change made? 
	what else was changed at the same time? 
	who can I ask about this code?  

- Ready for change

	all about managing and organizing changes 
	accept and integrate changes from other developers 
	isolate speculative work on branches

## *Thinking*

这一讲介绍了需要版本控制的原因，以及使用git的方法。在lab1中进行了实践。

# <u>Reading 6: Specifications</u>

# Part 1: Specifications

## Why specifications?

The contract acts as a *firewall* between client and implementor. 

- It shields the client from the details of the *workings* of the unit — you don’t need to read the source code of the procedure if you have its specification. 
- And it shields the implementor from the details of the *usage* of the unit; he doesn’t have to ask every client how she plans to use the unit. 
- This firewall results in *decoupling* , allowing the code of the unit and the code of a client to be changed independently, so long as the changes respect the specification — each obeying its obligation.

## Behavioral equivalence

The notion of equivalence is in the eye of the beholder — that is, the client. In order to make it possible to substitute one implementation for another, and to know when this is acceptable, we need a specification that states exactly what the client depends on.

```java
/**
 * static int find(int[] arr, int val)
 *   requires: val occurs exactly once in arr
 *   effects:  returns index i such that arr[i] = val
 */
```

## Specification structure

A specification of a method consists of several clauses:

- a *precondition* , indicated by the keyword *requires*
- a *postcondition* , indicated by the keyword *effects*

The overall structure is a logical implication: *if* the precondition holds when the method is called, *then* the postcondition must hold when the method completes.

If the precondition does *not* hold when the method is called, the implementation is *not* bound by the postcondition. It is free to do anything, including not terminating, throwing an exception, returning arbitrary results, making arbitrary modifications, etc.

### Specifications in Java

Java has a convention for [documentation comments ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Javadoc), in which parameters are described by `@param `clauses and results are described by `@return `and `@throws `clauses. You should put the preconditions into `@param `where possible, and postconditions into `@return `and `@throws `.

```java
/**
 * Find a value in an array.
 * @param arr array to search, requires that val occurs exactly once
 *            in arr
 * @param val value to search for
 * @return index i such that arr[i] = val
 */
static int find(int[] arr, int val)
```

The [Java API documentation ](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/)is produced from Javadoc comments in the [Java standard library source code ](https://hg.openjdk.java.net/jdk8/jdk8/jdk/file/tip/src/share/classes/java). Documenting your specifications in Javadoc allows Eclipse to show you (and clients of your code) useful information, and allows you to [produce HTML documentation ](https://help.eclipse.org/mars/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fref-export-javadoc.htm)in the same format as the Java API docs.

## Null references

- Primitives cannot be null:

```java
int size = null;     // illegal
double depth = null; // illegal
```

- On the other hand, we can assign null to any non-primitive variable:

```java
String name = null;
int[] points = null;
```

Note, in particular, that **`null `is not the same as an empty string `"" `or an empty array**. On an empty string or empty array, you *can* call methods and access fields. The length of an empty array or an empty string is 0. The length of a string variable that points to `null `isn’t anything: calling `length() `throws a `NullPointer­Exception `.

- Also note that arrays of non-primitives and collections like `List `might be non-null but contain null as a value:

```java
String[] names = new String[] { null };
List<Double> sizes = new ArrayList<>();
sizes.add(null);
```

Null values are troublesome and unsafe, so much so that you’re well advised to remove them from your design vocabulary. In 6.005 — and in fact in most good Java programming — **null values are implicitly disallowed in parameters and return values**.

If a method allows null values for a parameter, it should explicitly state it, or if it might return a null value as a result, it should explicitly state it. But these are in general not good ideas. **Avoid null** .

There are extensions to Java that allow you to forbid `null `directly in the type declaration, e.g.:

```java
static boolean addAll(@NonNull List<T> list1, @NonNull List<T> list2)
```

## What a specification may talk about

A specification of a method can talk about the parameters and return value of the method, but it should never talk about local variables of the method or private fields of the method’s class.

## Testing and specifications

It’s important to note that **even glass box tests must follow the specification** . Your implementation may provide stronger guarantees than the specification calls for, or it may have specific behavior where the specification is undefined. But your test cases should not count on that behavior. Test cases must obey the contract, just like every other client.

For example, suppose you are testing this specification of `find `, slightly different from the one we’ve used so far:

```
static int find(int[] arr, int val)
  requires: val occurs in arr
  effects:  returns index i such that arr[i] = val
```

- This spec has a strong precondition in the sense that `val `is required to be found
- and it has a fairly weak postcondition in the sense that if `val `appears more than once in the array

```java
int[] array = new int[] { 7, 7, 7 };
// assertEquals(0, find(array, 7));  // bad test case: violates the spec
assertEquals(7, array[find(array, 7)]);  // correct
```

Similarly, even if you implemented `find `so that it (sensibly) throws an exception when `val `isn’t found, instead of returning some arbitrary misleading index, your test case can’t assume that behavior, because **it can’t call `find() `in a way that violates the precondition.**

## Specifications for mutating methods

Here’s a specification that describes a method that mutates an object:

```java
static boolean addAll(List<T> list1, List<T> list2)
  requires: list1 != list2
  effects:  modifies list1 by adding the elements of list2 to the end of
              it, and returns true if list1 changed as a result of call
```

Here is another example of a mutating method:

```java
static void sort(List<String> lst)
  requires: nothing
  effects:  puts lst in sorted order, i.e. lst[i] <= lst[j]
              for all 0 <= i < j < lst.size()
```

And an example of a method that does not mutate its argument:

```java
static List<String> toLowerCase(List<String> lst)
  requires: nothing
  effects:  returns a new list t where t[i] = lst[i].toLowerCase()
```

We will also use the convention that **mutation is disallowed unless stated otherwise** . The spec of `to­Lower­Case `could explicitly state as an *effect* that “lst is not modified”, but in the absence of a postcondition describing mutation, we demand no mutation of the inputs.

# Part 2: Exceptions

**A method’s *signature* — its name, parameter types, return type — is a core part of its specification, and the signature may also include *exceptions* that the method may trigger.**

## Exceptions for signaling bugs

## Exceptions for special results

Here’s a better approach. The method throws an exception:

```java
LocalDate lookup(String name) throws NotFoundException {
    ...
    if ( ...not found... )
        throw new NotFoundException();
    ...
```

and the caller handles the exception with a `catch `clause. For example:

```java
BirthdayBook birthdays = ...
try {
    LocalDate birthdate = birthdays.lookup("Alyssa");
    // we know Alyssa's birthday
} catch (NotFoundException nfe) {
    // her birthday was not in the birthday book
}
```

Read: **[Exceptions ](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/index.html)**in the Java Tutorials.

## Checked and unchecked exceptions

Some terminology: *checked* exceptions are called that because they are checked by the compiler:

- If a method might throw a checked exception, the possibility must be declared in its signature. `Not­Found­Exception `would be a checked exception, and that’s why the signature ends `throws Not­Found­Exception `.
- If a method calls another method that may throw a checked exception, it must either handle it, or declare the exception itself, since if it isn’t caught locally it will be propagated up to callers.

So if you call `BirthdayBook `’s `lookup `method and forget to handle the `Not­Found­Exception `, the compiler will reject your code. This is very useful, because it ensures that exceptions that are expected to occur will be handled.

Here’s how Java distinguishes between checked and unchecked exceptions:

- `RuntimeException `, `Error `, and their subclasses are **unchecked** exceptions. The compiler doesn’t require them to be declared in the `throws `clause of a method that throws them, and doesn’t require them to be caught or declared by a caller of such a method.
- All other throwables — `Throwable `, `Exception `, and all of their subclasses except for those of the `RuntimeException `and `Error `lineage — are **checked** exceptions. The compiler requires these exceptions to be caught or declared when it’s possible for them to be thrown.

When you define your own exceptions, you should either subclass `RuntimeException `(to make it an unchecked exception) or `Exception `(to make it checked). Programmers generally don’t subclass `Error `or `Throwable `, because these are reserved by Java itself.

## Exception design considerations

This suggests a more refined rule:

- You should use an unchecked exception only to signal an unexpected failure (i.e. a bug), or if you expect that clients will usually write code that ensures the exception will not happen, because there is a convenient and inexpensive way to avoid the exception;
- Otherwise you should use a checked exception.

Here are some examples of applying this rule to hypothetical methods:

- `Queue.pop() `throws an *unchecked* `Empty­Queue­Exception `when the queue is empty, because it’s reasonable to expect the caller to avoid this with a call like `Queue.size() `or `Queue.isEmpty() `.
- `Url.getWebPage() `throws a *checked* `IOException `when it can’t retrieve the web page, because it’s not easy for the caller to prevent this.
- `int integerSquareRoot(int x) `throws a *checked* `Not­Perfect­Square­Exception `when `x `has no integral square root, because testing whether `x `is a perfect square is just as hard as finding the actual square root, so it’s not reasonable to expect the caller to prevent it.

The cost of using exceptions in Java is one reason that many Java API’s use the null reference as a special value. It’s not a terrible thing to do, so long as it’s done judiciously, and carefully specified.

## Abuse of exceptions

On a typical machine, the exception-based idiom runs 70 times slower than the standard one when looping from 0 to 99.

Much worse than that, the exception-based idiom is not even guaranteed to work! Suppose the computation of `f() `in the body of the loop contains a bug that results in an out-of-bounds access to some unrelated array. What happens?

> If a reasonable loop idiom were used, the bug would generate an uncaught exception, resulting in immediate thread termination with a full stack trace. If the misguided exception-based loop were used, the bug-related exception would be caught and misinterpreted as a normal loop termination.

## Summary

Let’s review how specifications help with the main goals of this course:

- **Safe from bugs** . A good specification clearly documents the mutual assumptions that a client and implementor are relying on. Bugs often come from disagreements at the interfaces, and the presence of a specification reduces that. Using machine-checked language features in your spec, like static typing and exceptions rather than just a human-readable comment, can reduce bugs still more.
- **Easy to understand** . A short, simple spec is easier to understand than the implementation itself, and saves other people from having to read the code.
- **Ready for change** . Specs establish contracts between different parts of your code, allowing those parts to change independently as long as they continue to satisfy the requirements of the contract.

## *Thinking*

这一讲介绍了specification（说明书）。

- 一个类/程序的specification可以作为代码实现者和代码使用者之间的防火墙。
- 一个specification包含两个部分：precondition前置条件和postcondition后置条件。

一些其他的和specification相关的问题

- **null**：默认precondition和postcondition都排除null，除非特别说明
- **mutation**：默认参数是不能被改变，除非特别说明

Exception

- 例外可以作为机器检查的一部分，就像static typing（静态归类）一样，而不像specification需要人为检查
- unchecked vs. checked Exception（检查性异常）
	- 如果是无法预料的、代码外的、以及代码使用者容易排除的异常，可以使用unchecked exception
- 异常通常较慢，不必要的时候不使用



# <u>Reading 7: Designing Specifications</u>

we’ll look at different specs for similar behaviors, and talk about the tradeoffs between them. We’ll look at three dimensions for comparing specs:

- How **deterministic** it is. Does the spec define only a single possible output for a given input, or allow the implementor to choose from a set of legal outputs?
- How **declarative** it is. Does the spec just characterize *what* the output should be, or does it explicitly say *how* to compute the output?
- How **strong** it is. Does the spec have a small set of legal implementations, or a large set?

## Stronger vs. weaker specs

A specification S2 is stronger than or equal to a specification S1 if

- S2’s precondition is weaker than or equal to S1’s, and
- S2’s postcondition is stronger than or equal to S1’s, for the states that satisfy S1’s precondition.

If this is the case, then an implementation that satisfies S2 can be used to satisfy S1 as well, and it’s safe to replace S1 with S2 in your program.

For example, this spec for `find `:

```java
static int findExactlyOne(int[] a, int val)
  requires: val occurs exactly once in a
  effects:  returns index i such that a[i] = val
```

can be replaced with:

```java
static int findOneOrMore,AnyIndex(int[] a, int val)
  requires: val occurs at least once in a
  effects:  returns index i such that a[i] = val
```

which has a weaker precondition. This in turn can be replaced with:

```java
static int findOneOrMore,FirstIndex(int[] a, int val)
  requires: val occurs at least once in a
  effects:  returns lowest index i such that a[i] = val
```

## Designing good specifications

<u>***Designing a method means primarily writing a specification.***</u>

About the form of the specification: it should obviously be succinct, clear, and well-structured, so that it’s easy to read.

### The specification should be coherent

The spec shouldn’t have lots of different cases. Long argument lists, deeply nested if-statements, and boolean flags are all signs of trouble.

### The results of a call should be informative

Note that the precondition does not rule out `null `values so the map can store `null `s. But the postcondition uses `null `as a special return value for a missing key. This means that if `null `is returned, you can’t tell whether the key was not bound previously, or whether it was in fact bound to `null `. This is not a very good design, because the return value is useless unless you know for sure that you didn’t insert `null `s.

### The specification should be strong enough

We must use extra care when specifying the special cases, to make sure they don’t undermine what would otherwise be a useful method.

### The specification should also be weak enough

```java
static File open(String filename)
  effects: opens a file named filename
```

It’s too strong, since there’s no way it can guarantee to open a file. The process in which it runs may lack permission to open a file, or there might be some problem with the file system beyond the control of the program. Instead, the specification should say something much weaker: that it attempts to open a file, and if it succeeds, the file has certain properties.

### The specification should use *abstract types* where possible

... we can distinguish between more abstract notions like a `List `or `Set `and particular implementations like `ArrayList `or `HashSet `.

## Precondition or postcondition?

- **Precondition**: ... a non-trivial precondition inconveniences clients, because they have to ensure that they don’t call the method in a bad state
	- Sometimes, it’s not feasible to check a condition without making a method unacceptably slow
	- e.g. Forcing the method to actually *check* that the array is sorted would defeat the entire purpose of the binary search: to obtain a result in logarithmic and not linear time.
- **Postcondition**: That’s why the Java API classes, for example, tend to specify (as a postcondition) that they throw unchecked exceptions when arguments are inappropriate.
	- In general, it’s better to **fail fast** , as close as possible to the site of the bug, rather than let bad values propagate through a program far from their original cause.

- **Decision**: The decision of whether to use a precondition is an engineering judgment. The key factors are the cost of the check (in writing and executing code), and **the scope of the method**.
	- If it’s only called locally in a class, the precondition can be discharged by carefully checking all the sites that call the method.
	- But if the method is public, and used by other developers, it would be less wise to use a precondition. Instead, like the Java API classes, you should throw an exception.

## About access control

Read: **[Packages ](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/package/index.html)**(7 short pages) in the Java Tutorials.

Read: **[Controlling Access ](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/accesscontrol.html)**(1 page) in the Java Tutorials.

`public` method vs. `private` method

## About static vs. instance methods

Read: **[the `static `keyword ](https://www.codeguru.com/java/tij/tij0037.shtml#Heading79)**on CodeGuru.

Static methods are not associated with any particular instance of a class, while *instance* methods (declared without the `static `keyword) must be called on a particular object.

Specifications for instance methods are written just the same way as specifications for static methods, but they will often refer to properties of the instance on which they were called.

Instead of using an `int[] `, what if we had a class `IntArray `designed for storing arrays of integers? The `IntArray `class might provide an instance method with the specification:

```java
int find(int val)
  requires: val occurs in this array
  effects:  returns index i such that the value at index i in this array
              is val
```

## Summary

Declarative specifications are the most useful in practice. Preconditions (which weaken the specification) make life harder for the client, but applied judiciously they are a vital tool in the software designer’s repertoire, allowing the implementor to make necessary assumptions.

As always, our goal is to design specifications that make our software:

- **Safe from bugs** . Without specifications, even the tiniest change to any part of our program could be the tipped domino that knocks the whole thing over. Well-structured, coherent specifications minimize misunderstandings and maximize our ability to write correct code with the help of static checking, careful reasoning, testing, and code review.
- **Easy to understand** . A well-written declarative specification means the client doesn’t have to read or understand the code. You’ve probably never read the code for, say, [Python `dict.update `](https://hg.python.org/cpython/file/7ae156f07a90/Objects/dictobject.c#l1990), and doing so isn’t nearly as useful to the Python programmer as [reading the declarative spec ](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.update).
- **Ready for change** . An appropriately weak specification gives freedom to the implementor, and an appropriately strong specification gives freedom to the client. We can even change the specs themselves, without having to revisit every place they’re used, as long as we’re only strengthening them: weakening preconditions and strengthening postconditions.

## *Thinking*

**<u>*设计一个方法主要意味着写一个specification*</u>**

- 如果precondition更弱或postcondition更强，则一个specificaiton更强
- Good Specification
	- 简洁明了
	- 要够强：例如处理特例时导向有意义的结果
	- 要够弱：能够处理可能发生的种种情况
	- 尽量使用抽象类型（ADT）
- 前置条件还是后置条件
	- 前置条件有时给使用者过多束缚，后置条件有时浪费资源（java api classes倾向于后置）
	- 一个工程选择
		- 作为后置条件消耗的资源
		- 方法的有效范围（scope），如果是private则前置
- `public` vs. `private` / `static` vs. instance
	- instance method的specificaiton通常会参考类的属性

# <u>Reading 8: Avoiding Debugging</u>

## First Defense: Make Bugs Impossible

- static checking
- dynamic checking
- immutable type
- immutable reference `final`

## Second Defense: Localize Bugs

Checking preconditions is an example of **defensive programming**.

### Assertions

```java
assert x >= 0;
assert (x >= 0) : "x is " + x;
```

- The `assert `statement should be used in implementation code, for defensive checks inside the implementation. 
- JUnit `assert...() `methods should be used in JUnit tests, to check the result of a test. 
- The `assert `statements don’t run without `-ea `, but the JUnit `assert...() `methods always run.

### What to Assert

- **Method argument requirements** , like we saw for `sqrt `.
- **Method return value requirements.** This kind of assertion is sometimes called a *self check* . For example, the sqrt method might square its result to check whether it is reasonably close to x:

```java
public double sqrt(double x) {
    assert x >= 0;
    double r;
    ... // compute result r
    assert Math.abs(r*r - x) < .0001;
    return r;
}
```

- **Covering all cases.** If a conditional statement or switch does not cover all the possible cases, it is good practice to use an assertion to block the illegal cases:

```java
switch (vowel) {
  case 'a':
  case 'e':
  case 'i':
  case 'o':
  case 'u': return "A";
  default: assert false;
}
```

**<u>*When should you write runtime assertions? As you write the code, not after the fact.*</u>**

### What Not to Assert

Many assertion mechanisms are designed so that assertions are executed only during testing and debugging, and turned off when the program is released to users.

- The advantage of this approach is that you can write very expensive assertions that would otherwise seriously degrade the performance of your program.

### Incremental Development

Build only a bit of your program at a time, and test that bit thoroughly before you move on. That way, when you discover a bug, it’s more likely to be in the part that you just wrote, rather than anywhere in a huge pile of code.

Our class on testing talked about two techniques that help with this:

- [**Unit testing** ](https://ocw.mit.edu/ans7870/6/6.005/s16/classes/03-testing/#unit_testing_and_stubs): when you test a module in isolation, you can be confident that any bug you find is in that unit – or maybe in the test cases themselves.
- [**Regression testing** ](https://ocw.mit.edu/ans7870/6/6.005/s16/classes/03-testing/#automated_testing_and_regression_testing): when you’re adding a new feature to a big system, run the regression test suite as often as possible. If a test fails, the bug is probably in the code you just changed.

### Modularity & Encapsulation

- **Modularity**
- **Encapsulation**： building walls around a module (a hard shell or capsule) so that the module is responsible for its own internal behavior
	- **Access control** , using public and private to control the visibility and accessibility of your variables and methods.
	- **Minimizing the scope of variables**
		- **Always declare a loop variable in the for-loop initializer.**
		- **Declare a variable only when you first need it, and in the innermost curly-brace block that you can.**
		- **Avoid global variables.**

### Summary

In this reading, we looked at some ways to minimize the cost of debugging:

- Avoid debugging
	- make bugs impossible with techniques like static typing, automatic dynamic checking, and immutable types and references
- Keep bugs confined
	- failing fast with assertions keeps a bug’s effects from spreading
	- incremental development and unit testing confine bugs to your recent code
	- scope minimization reduces the amount of the program you have to search

Thinking about our three main measures of code quality:

- **Safe from bugs.** We’re trying to prevent them and get rid of them.
- **Easy to understand.** Techniques like static typing, final declarations, and assertions are additional documentation of the assumptions in your code. Variable scope minimization makes it easier for a reader to understand how the variable is used, because there’s less code to look at.
- **Ready for change.** Assertions and static typing document the assumptions in an automatically-checkable way, so that when a future programmer changes the code, accidental violations of those assumptions are detected.

## *Thinking*

这一讲讨论了如何避免bug及减少debug的消耗。

避免bug的方法

- static typing（静态分类）和自动动态检查（例如array的index out of range）
- Immutability
	- Immutable type
	- Immutable reference `final`

控制bug范围的方法

- 使用assertion从而让程序尽快出错
- 渐进开发和单元测试
- 最小化作用域（scope minimization）
	- 把for的循环变量定义在for的初始化语句中
	- 使用一个变量之前再定义
	- 避免使用全局变量



# <u>Lab2. TweetTweet</u>

## *Thinking*

这一讲基本讨论了这个单元里的所有内容：设计说明（specs），测试优先编程，避免debug，版本控制等等。

可以认识到设计说明（specs）作为代码使用者和代码实现者之间的防火墙，其实也是测试设计者和其余两者之间的防火墙。

- 测试
	- ***测试优先编程***，这时写的测试并不需要考虑方法具体的代码实现，即黑盒测试
		- 考虑specs中的precondition和postcondition，如果存在underdetermined postconditions，测试不应强制确定的结果
	- 在根据测试和specs完成方法的代码实现后，可以进一步完成***白盒测试***的实现
		- 但白盒测试仍不应超出设计说明的范围，不应使设计说明变得更强或更弱
	- 测试的设计使用input/output-space ***partitioning***
- 设计说明
	- 测试：每个测试集前说明测试策略，尤其是partition的策略
- Java
	- Java里有很多预设的类的方法，每个类有每个类的操作方式，好在IntelliJ有大量的提示
		- 和python把有很多系统方法如 `__equal__` 不同
	- Static Typing
		- `final` (reference immutability) 在大多数地方都可以使用，尽量使用
		- `static` (scope: class or instance) 不牵涉到instance的地方都是，尽量使用
		- `private` (scope: private or public) helper functions都是，JUnit都不是，因为都是外部调用的
		- 方法内部都是局部变量，不存在 `static` 和 `private/public` 的问题（应该不能像python一样定义全局变量）
		- 这一个lab没有用到 `assert` 和Exception



























