# <u>Reading 13: Debugging</u>

Other Resources

- A good book about systematic debugging is [*Why Programs Fail*](http://www.whyprogramsfail.com/toc.php) by Andreas Zeller. Much of this reading is inspired by that book.
- Also related is [“How to Debug”](https://blog.regehr.org/archives/199) by John Regehr, a lecture from an embedded systems course, which is more low-level than 6.031 but with the same general principles for systematic debugging.
- Finally, [*Debugging: The Nine Indispensable Rules for Finding Even the Most Elusive Software and Hardware Problems*](https://mit-library.skillport.com/skillportfe/main.action?assetid=RW$8779:_ss_book:5171#summary/BOOKS/RW$8779:_ss_book:5171) by David Agans is a readable, eminently practical guide to debugging in a variety of technical situations, from software to hardware to cars to plumbing.

## Reproduce the bug

### Reduce the size of input

- `mostCommonWord(allShakespearesPlaysConcatenated)`
	- the method returns something unexpected, perhaps `"e"`.
- Reduce the sieze
	- does the first half of Shakespeare show the same bug? (**Binary search**! Always a good technique. More about this below.)
	- does a single play have the same bug?
	- does a single speech have the same bug?

## Find the bug using the scientific method

1. **Study the data.** Look at the test input that causes the bug, and examine the incorrect results, failed assertions, and stack traces that result from it.
2. **Hypothesize.** Propose a hypothesis, consistent with all the data, about where the bug might be, or where it *cannot* be. 
	- It’s good to make this hypothesis general at first.
3. **Experiment.** Devise and run an experiment that tests your hypothesis.
	- It’s good to make the experiment an *observation* at first – a probe that collects information but disturbs the system as little as possible.
4. **Repeat.** Add the data you collected from your experiment to what you knew before, and make a fresh hypothesis.

### 10-Minute Rule

- If you’ve spent 10 minutes hunting for a bug using ad hoc, unsystematic inspection, then it’s time to take a step back and start applying the scientific method instead.

### Move from Head to Paper/Note

- As part of this transition, you should also move your debugging process out of your head – which has a very limited working memory of what you’ve tried and what you’ve learned from it – and start taking notes, either on paper or on your laptop. In each iteration of the process, you’ll be writing down:
	- *Hypothesis.* Based on what you’ve learned so far, what’s your next hypothesis about the location or cause of the bug?
	- *Experiment.* What are you about to try that will shed light on the hypothesis, by verifying or falsifying it?
	- *Predictions.* What do you expect, based on your hypothesis, to be the result of the experiment?
	- *Observations.* What actually happened when you did the experiment?

## 1. Study the data

### stack trace from an exception

- Your own code — where the bug is most likely to be — is often somewhere in the middle.

## 2. Hypothesize

### 2.1. Slicing

#### Hypotheses of Two Consecutive Methods

- bug in the 2nd method: 
	- valid input but then throws an exception
- bug in the connection: 
	- both methods meet their contracs, but the postcondition guaranteed by the former doesn’t satisfy the precondition expected by the latter
- bug in the 1st method:
	- its input is valid but it produces bad output
- bug in the original input of the 1st method
	- input doesn’t satisfy the precondition of the whole method

#### Use Binary Search to try all hypotheses

### 2.2. Delta debugging

- a general idea in bug finding called [*delta debugging*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delta_Debugging), in which you compare successful runs with failing runs to try to localize the bug.
- Another kind of delta debugging is useful when a regression test starts failing. Using your version control system, you retrieve the most recent version that still passed the test

## 3. Experiment

The best experiment is a ***probe***, a gentle observation of the system that disturbs it as little as possible.

1. One familiar probe is a **print statement**.
	- It has the disadvantage that it makes a change to the program, which you have to remember to revert.
	- print something clear and descriptive like `start of calculateTotalBonus`.
	- A more elaborate kind of print debugging is ***logging***
2. Another kind of probe is an **assertion**
	- can even be left in the code after debugging if the test is universally true
	- Assertions have the disadvantage that they’re not turned on by default
3. A third kind of probe is setting a **breakpoint** with a debugger
	- step on / step into

### Swap components

- If you suspect your `binarySearch()` implementation, then substitute a simpler `linearSearch()` instead.
- If you suspect `java.util.ArrayList`, swap in `java.util.LinkedList` instead.
- If you suspect the Java runtime, run with a different version of Java.
- If you suspect the operating system, run your program on a different OS.
- If you suspect the hardware, run on a different machine.

As we discussed under [**prioritizing hypotheses**](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/13-debugging/#prioritize_hypotheses), the programming language, operating system, or hardware should be very low on your list of suspects.

### One bug at a time

It’s not unusual, while you’re trying to debug one problem, to **discover other problems**.

- **Keep a bug list**.
	- a paper notebook or text file
	- group: GitHub's issues tab
- **Don’t get distracted from the bug you’re working on.**
	- you may have a hard time popping your mental stack to return to the original bug.
- **reprioritize your bug fixing**
	- If the new problem is interfering with your ability to debug
	- Put the current bug down (unwinding or commenting out your experimental probes, and making sure the bug is on your bug list to fix later)

### Don’t fix yet

It’s tempting **to *fix* the hypothesized bug**, instead of **a mere probe**.

- First, it leads to a kind of **ad hoc guess-and-test** programming, which produces awful, complex, hard-to-understand code.
- Second, your fix may just mask the true bug without actually removing it — treating the **symptom** rather than the **disease**.

## 4. Repeat

###  Keep an audit trail

**10-Minute Rule**: Keep a log in a text file of what you did, in what order, and what happened as a result

- the hypothesis you are exploring now
- the experiment you are trying now to test that hypothesis
- what you observe as a result of the experiment:
	- whether the test passed or failed this time
	- the program output, especially your own debugging messages
	- any stack traces

### Check the plug

An example of “checking the plug” in programming is to **make sure your source code and object code are up to date.**

### If YOU didn’t fix it, it isn’t really fixed

In a complex system, sometimes a bug will suddenly disappear. Maybe it was something you did, but maybe not.

##  Fix the bug

1. Avoid the temptation to slap a patch on it and move on.
2. **Coding error or Desing error**

- **Look for related bugs, and newly-created ones.**
	- Try to make the code safe from future bugs like this. Also consider what effects your fix will have.
- **Undo debugging probes.**
	- Undo all those changes now, before you commit your fix to version control.
- **Make a regression test.**

### Other tips

- **Get a fresh view.**
	- It often helps to explain your problem to someone else
		- even if the person you’re talking to has no idea what you’re talking about
		- sometimes called [*rubber-duck debugging*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging) or *teddy-bear debugging*
			- One computer lab had a big teddy bear sitting next to their help desk, with the rule that you had to “tell it to the bear” before you tried the human
	- StackOverflow
- **Sleep on it.** 
	- If you’re too tired, you won’t be an effective debugger. 
	- Trade latency for efficiency.

## Summary

In this reading, we looked at how to debug systematically:

- reproduce the bug as a test case, and put it in your regression suite
- find the bug using the scientific method:
	- generate hypotheses using slicing, binary search, and delta debugging
	- use minimially-invasive probes, like print statements, assertions, or a debugger, to observe program behavior and test the prediction of your hypotheses
- fix the bug thoughtfully

## *Thinking*

这一讲系统化地介绍了Debugging的策略（或者说技巧）。例如开始记笔记和系统科学方法的10分钟策略。主要的内容在summary里很清晰地写明了。



# <u>Reading 14: Recursion</u>

## Helper methods

if you discover that you need temporary variables like `partialSubsequence` in your recursion, **don’t change the original spec of your method**, and **don’t force your clients to correctly initialize those parameters**.

- **helper method**
	- It satisfies a different spec from the original `subsequences`, because it has a new parameter `partialSubsequence`.
- **Don’t expose the helper method to your clients.** 
	- Your decision to decompose the recursion this way instead of another way is entirely implementation-specific.
	- a helper method is `private`

##  Mutual recursion

```java
/**
 * @param file a file in the filesystem
 */
public static void visitNode(File file) {
  if (file.isDirectory()) {
    visitChildren(file.listFiles());
  }
}

/**
 * @param files a list of files
 */
public static void visitChildren(File[] files) {
  for (File file : files) {
    visitNode(file);
  }
}
```

- **both methods are simple and short**
- **the client can choose to start the tree traversal from either method**

### Accumulator

- Mutable

	```java
	public static void visitNode(File file, String pattern, Set<File> resultSet) {
	  if (file.getName().startsWith(pattern)) { resultSet.add(file); }
	  if (file.isDirectory()) {
	    visitChildren(file.listFiles(), pattern, resultSet);
	  }
	}
	
	public static void visitChildren(File[] files, String pattern, Set<File> resultSet) {
	  for (File file : files) {
	    visitNode(file, pattern, resultSet);
	  }
	}
	```

- Immutable

	```java
	public static Set<File> visitNode(File file, String pattern) {
	    Set<File> resultSet = new HashSet<>();
	    if (file.getName().startsWith(pattern)) { resultSet.add(file); }
	    if (file.isDirectory()) {
	        resultSet.addAll(visitChildren(file.listFiles(), pattern));
	    }
	    return Collections.unmodifiableSet(resultSet);
	}
	
	public static Set<File> visitChildren(File[] files, String pattern) {
	    Set<File> resultSet = new HashSet<>();
	    for (File file : files) {
	        resultSet.addAll(visitNode(file));
	    }
	    return Collections.unmodifiableSet(resultSet);
	}
	```

## Reentrant code

Recursion – a method calling itself – is a special case of a general phenomenon in programming called **Reentrancy**.

**Reentrant code can be called again *even while a call to it is underway***

- keeps its state entirely in parameters and local variables
- doesn’t use static variables or global variables
- doesn’t share aliases to mutable objects with other parts of the program, or other calls to itself

**<u>*It’s good to design your code to be reentrant as much as possible.*</u>**

## When to use recursion rather than iteration

- **functional programming** vs. imperative programming
	- In an ideal recursive implementation, all variables are final, all data are immutable, and the recursive methods are all pure functions in the sense that they do not mutate anything.
	- The behavior of a method can be understood simply as a relationship between its parameters and its return value, with no side effects on any other part of the program.
- **Stack Size**
	- the maximum depth of recursion grows **logarithmically**
		- rarely a problem
	- the maximum depth of recursion grows **linealy**
		- the stack size may become a limit on the size of the problem

## Summary

We saw these ideas:

- recursive problems and recursive data
- comparing alternative decompositions of a recursive problem
- using helper methods to strengthen a recursive step
- recursion vs. iteration

The topics of today’s reading connect to our three key properties of good software as follows:

- **Safe from bugs.** Recursive code is simpler and often uses unreassignable variables and immutable objects.
- **Easy to understand.** Recursive implementations for naturally recursive problems and recursive data are often shorter and easier to understand than iterative solutions.
- **Ready for change.** Recursive code is also naturally reentrant, which makes it safer from bugs and ready to use in more situations.

## *Thinking*

这一讲详细介绍了递归和一些它的细节问题。

- Helper：这是之前写递归函数的时候碰到的一个很重要的问题，函数本身的参数并不足以支持递归，但增加参数又使得函数变得不清晰（coherent），在了解了spec作为契约的概念后，增设一个helper function就变得自然而然
- Mutual Recursion：可以简化函数的内容，使得每个函数有更清晰（coherent）的功能（从而实现functional programming？）
- Reentrancy：即函数运行的过程中允许再次调用该函数，这是递归的基础，它对immutability有较高的要求



# <u>Reading 15: Equality</u>

## Equivalence relation

For `==`, Equivalence relation:

- reflexive: t == t  ∀ t ∈ T
- symmetric: t == u  ⇒ u == t
- transitive: t == u ∧ u == v  ⇒ t == v

And similarly for the `equals()` method.

**<u>*An equality operation should always be an equivalence relation*</u>**

## Equality of immutable types

- **Using the abstraction function**.
	- a equals b if and only if AF(a) = AF(b)
- **Using observation**.
	- two objects are equal if and only if they cannot be distinguished by calling any **operations of the abstract data type**

## `==` vs. `equals()`

- The `==` operator compares references. More precisely, it tests ***reference* equality**.
- The `equals()` operation compares object contents – in other words, ***object* equality**

|              | *reference equality* | *object equality* |
| ------------ | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| ***Java***   | `==`                 | `equals()`        |
| ***Python*** | `is`                 | `==`              |
| Objective C  | `==`                 | `isEqual:`        |
| C#           | `==`                 | `Equals()`        |
| JavaScript   | `==`                 | n/a               |

- **reference:** we can’t change the meaning of the reference equality operator
- **object:** it’s our responsibility to decide what object equality means for values of the data type, and implement the `equals()` operation appropriately.

## Implementing `equals()`

- The `equals()` method is defined by `Object`, and its default implementation looks like this:

	```java
	public class Object {
	    ...
	    public boolean equals(Object that) {
	        return this == that;		// Reference Equality
	    }
	}
	```

- the default meaning of `equals()` is the same as **reference equality**. 

	- For **immutable data types**, this is **almost always wrong**.

###  The wrong way to implement `equals()`

```java
public class Duration {
    ...   
    // Problematic definition of equals()
    public boolean equals(Duration that) {
        return this.getLength() == that.getLength();        
    }
}
```

- **Different method signature**
	- `Duration` has **overloaded** the `equals()` method, because the method signature was not identical to `Object`’s.
- **Static type of the parameter**
	- Java compiler selects between overloaded operations [using the static type of the parameter expressions](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/methods.html).
- **`@Override`**
	- With this annotation, the Java compiler will check that a method with the same signature actually exists in the superclass.

### A better way to implement `equals()`

```java
@Override
public boolean equals(Object that) {
    return that instanceof Duration && this.sameValue((Duration)that);
}

// returns true iff this and that represent the same abstract value
private boolean sameValue(Duration that) {
    return this.getLength() == that.getLength();
}
```

### instanceof

- Using `instanceof` is **dynamic type checking**
	- using `instanceof` in object-oriented programming is a bad smell
- **`instanceof` is disallowed anywhere except for implementing `equals`**.

## The Object contract

**The specification of the `Object` class is so important**

Here we will focus on the contract for `equals`. When you override the `equals` method, you must adhere to its general contract. It states that:

- `equals` must define an equivalence relation – that is, a relation that is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive;
- `equals` must be consistent: repeated calls to the method must yield the same result (as long as neither object has been mutated in a way that affects the `equals` comparison);
- for a non-null reference `x`, `x.equals(null)` should return false;
- `hashCode` must produce the same result for two objects that are deemed equal by the `equals` method.

### Breaking hash tables

- `Object`’s default `hashCode()` implementation is consistent with its default `equals()`:

	```java
	public class Object {
	  ...
	  public boolean equals(Object that) { return this == that; }
	  public int hashCode() { return /* the memory address of this */; }
	}
	```

- For `Duration`, this is easy, because the abstract value of the class is already an integer value:

	```java
	@Override
	public int hashCode() {
	    return (int) getLength();
	}
	```

- **Ways to override `hashCode()`**
	- Josh Bloch’s fantastic book, *Effective Java*
		- The advice is summarized in [a good StackOverflow post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/113511/hash-code-implementation).
	- [`Objects.hash()`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Objects.html#hash(java.lang.Object...)) makes it easier to implement a hash code involving multiple fields
- **Always override `hashCode` when you override `equals`.**

## Equality of mutable types

- **observational equality** means that two references cannot be distinguished *now*, in the current state of the program.
	- Collections like `List`, `Set`, and `Map` use observational equality
- **behavioral equality** means that two references cannot be distinguished *now or in the future*, even if a mutator is called to change the state of one object but not the other.
	- other mutable classes like `StringBuilder`, and arrays, use behavioral equality

## Breaking a HashSet’s rep invariant

```java
List<String> list = new ArrayList<>();
list.add("a");

Set<List<String>> set = new HashSet<List<String>>();
set.add(list);

set.contains(list)		\\ → true
  
list.add("goodbye");

set.contains(list)		\\ → false!
for (List<String> l : set) { 
    set.contains(l)		\\ → false! 
}
```

- **`hashCode()` changes**
	- In the standard Java implementation of collection classes like `List`, mutations affect the result of `equals()` and `hashCode()`.
	- but `HashSet` doesn’t realize it should be moved to a different bucket.
- **Solution**
	1. **behavioral equality**
	2. **(nu motable type in `HashMap` or `HashSet`)**

##  The final rule for equals() and hashCode()

**For immutable types**:

- Behavioral equality is the same as observational equality.
- `equals()` must be overridden to compare abstract values.
- `hashCode()` must be overriden to map the abstract value to an integer.

**For mutable types**:

- Behavioral equality is different from observational equality.
- `equals()` should generally not be overriden, but inherit the implementation from `Object` that compares references, just like `==`.
- `hashCode()` should likewise not be overridden, but inherit `Object`’s implementation that maps the reference into an integer.

**For a mutable type that needs a notion of observational equality**:

- it’s better to define a completely new operation, which might be called `similar()` or `sameValue()`.

### Autoboxing and equality

- for example, `int` and `Integer`. The object type implements `equals()` in the correct way, so that if you create two `Integer` objects with the same value, they’ll be `equals()` to each other:

	```java
	Integer x = new Integer(3);
	Integer y = new Integer(3);
	x.equals(y) → true
	```

- But there’s a subtle problem here; `==` is overloaded. For reference types like `Integer`, it implements reference equality:

	```java
	x == y // returns false
	```

- But for primitive types like `int`, `==` implements behavioral equality:

	```java
	(int)x == (int)y // returns true
	```

- **The fact that Java automatically converts between `int` and `Integer` (this is called [*autoboxing* and *autounboxing*](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/autoboxing.html)) can lead to subtle bugs!**

## Summary

- Equality should be an equivalence relation (reflexive, symmetric, transitive).
- Equality and hash code must be consistent with each other, so that data structures that use hash tables (like `HashSet` and `HashMap`) work properly.
- The abstraction function is the basis for equality in immutable data types (which means immutable types must override `equals()`, and therefore `hashCode()`).
- Reference equality is the basis for equality in mutable data types; this is the only way to ensure consistency over time and avoid breaking rep invariants of hash tables.

## *Thinking*

这一讲详细介绍了（java中的）“相等”。有两种类型，引用相等（reference eq）和对象相等（object eq）。其实这里很好地介绍了为什么python中的set和dictionary的key不能是mutable type：

- 对于immutable DT，他们的散列值（Hash Value）是恒定的，但对于mutable type，散列函数（hash function）的选择会决定散列值是否会因为对象的变化而改变。
	- 散列值的改变会导致hashset和hashmap无法找到改变后的对象，但该对象实际在一个slot里（如果枚举的话可以看到）
- 对于immutable type来说，由于散列值相等也是 `Object` 类对于相等的要求，因此如果覆盖（override）equal函数的话，也需要覆盖hashcode函数
- 对于mutable type，如果要在hashset或hashmap中使用，则建议继承Object的equal和hashcode函数，直接对比对象的内存地址
	- 当然如果不在hashset和hashmap中使用则不需要，但**由于java默认可以使用，因此最好使用reference equality**

# <u>Reading 16: Recursive Data Types</u>

## Immutable lists

```java
public interface ImList<E> {
    public static <E> ImList<E> empty() {
        return new Empty<>();
    }
    public ImList<E> cons(E elt);
    public E first();
    public ImList<E> rest();
}

public class Empty<E> implements ImList<E> {
    public Empty() {
    }
    public ImList<E> cons(E elt) {
        return new Cons<>(elt, this);
    }
    public E first() {
        throw new UnsupportedOperationException();
    }
    public ImList<E> rest() {
        throw new UnsupportedOperationException();
    }
}

public class Cons<E> implements ImList<E> {
    private final E elt;
    private final ImList<E> rest;

    public Cons(E elt, ImList<E> rest) {
        this.elt = elt;
        this.rest = rest;
    }
    public ImList<E> cons(E elt) {
        return new Cons<>(elt, this);
    }
    public E first() {
        return elt;
    }
    public ImList<E> rest() {
        return rest;
    }
}


```

### Two classes implementing one interface

- (also seen in python AVL Tree implementation?)
- **`null`**
	- if a class is allowed to be `null`, one class may be enough

## Recursive datatype definitions

a datatype definition has:

- an **abstract datatype** on the left, defined by its **representation** (or **concrete datatype**) on the right
- the representation consists of **variants** of the datatype combined by a union operator, which we’ll write as `+`
- each variant is a class name with zero or more **fields**, written with name and type separated by a colon (`:`).

e.g.

- `ImList`

	```java
	ImList<E> = Empty + Cons(elt:E, rest:ImList<E>)
	```

- `Tree`

	```java
	Tree<E> = Empty + Node(e:E, left:Tree<E>, right:Tree<E>)
	```

When you write a recursive datatype, document the recursive datatype definition as a comment in the interface:

```java
public interface ImList<E> {

    // Datatype definition:
    //   ImList<E> = Empty + Cons(elt:E, rest:ImList<E>)
```

##  Functions over recursive datatypes

- We can define it like this:

	**size : ImList → int**  // returns the size of the list

- and then fully specify its meaning by defining *size* for each variant of `ImList`:

	```java
	size(Empty) = 0  
	size(Cons(elt:E, rest:ImList)) = 1 + size(rest)
	```

- And the cases from the definition can be translated directly into Java

	```java
	public interface ImList<E> {
	    public int size();
	}
	public class Empty<E> implements ImList<E> {
	    public int size() { return 0; }
	}
	public class Cons<E> implements ImList<E> {
	    public int size() { return 1 + rest.size(); }
	}
	```

## Rep independence and rep exposure revisited

- **Package-private**
	- declared with neither the `public` nor `private` keyword
- **not talk about the rep**
	- The concrete variants of a recursive ADT are its rep, so the specs must not mention them.

## Null vs. empty

- **Resist using `null`**

	- **sentinel objects**

		- a sentinel object provides is that it acts like an object in the datatype, so **you can call methods on it**.

		- if `null`, then our code would be full of tests like:

			```java
			if (list != null) n = list.size();
			```

	- Keep `null` values out of your data structures, and your life will be happier.

## Declared type vs. actual type

- ***declared type***
	- ***static type* or *compile-time type***
		- `String s`, `s.charAt(0)`, `s.length()`
- ***actual type***
	- ***dynamic type* or *runtime type***
		- `new String()`, `new Empty()`

## Summary

In addition to the big idea of **recursive datatypes**, we saw in this reading:

- **datatype definitions**: a powerful way to think about abstract types, particularly recursive ones
- **functions over recursive datatypes**: declared in the specification for the type, and implemented with one case per concrete variant
- immutable lists: a classic, canonical example of an immutable datatype

## *Thinking*

本讲介绍了递归数据类型，以及数据类型的定义和递归数据类型的方法的实现方式。

首先使用Immutable lists作为一个经典的例子：

- sentinel objects：建议使用一个单独的类来定义空集（或空节点），这样ADT的功能也可以在空上实现及使用
- 递归数据类型的定义，提出了一个符号体系，例如对于二叉树
	- `Tree<E> = Empty + Node(e:E, left:Tree<E>, right:Tree<E>)`



# <u>Problem Set 3: The Librarians</u>

## Workflow

1. Study the **specifications** of the type's operations carefully.
2. Write JUnit **tests** for the operations according to the spec.
	- Your test cases should be chosen using the input/output-space partitioning approach.
	- Your test cases should be small and well-chosen.
	- Your tests should find bugs. The Final grading test suite will include buggy implementations of the types, so your tests need to find those bugs.
	- Your tests must be legal clients of the spec.
3. Write the **type's rep (its fields)**, document its **rep invariant and abstraction function**, and implement the rep invariant in a **`checkRep()` method**.
4. Implement the **type's methods according to the spec**.
5. Make an argument about **why your rep is safe from rep exposure**, and write it down in a comment.
6. Revise your implementation and improve your test cases until your implementation passes all your tests.

## *Thinking*

这个pset练习了ADT的实现，不过到最后也基本没有写过specification，主要还是测试和方法的实现。

一个是项目的结构：

- Interface
	- 作为最抽象的实现者和使用者之间的契约，基本方法的specs都在这里完成
- 具体的实现
	- 需要遵守Interface里specs的要求
	- 包含对于RI、AF的说明，以及rep exposure的说明
- Helper
	- 由于specs确定了契约，因此方法的specs不能随意改变，在需要额外的parameter时可以设置helper method
		- 尤其是递归方法

另外一个是ADT的安全

- 比较重要的两个点一个是Immutability，另一个是Rep Exposure，而前者是后者的一个保障。



























