#  <u>Reading 17: Regular Expressions & Grammars</u>

## Grammars

- **terminals**

	- The literal strings in a grammar, like `'http'` or `':'`.

- **productions, nonterminals**

	- A grammar is described by a set of *productions*, where each production defines a *nonterminal*.

		- a nonterminal is like a variable that stands for a set of strings
		- the production as the definition of that variable in terms of other variables (nonterminals), operators, and constants (terminals).

	- A production in a grammar has the form

		```parserlib
		nonterminal ::= expression of terminals, nonterminals, and operators 
		```

### Grammar operators

- **Repetition**, represented by `*`:

	```parserlib
	x ::= y*        // x matches zero or more y
	```

- **Concatenation**, represented not by a symbol, but just a space:

	```parserlib
	x ::= y z       // x matches y followed by z 
	```

- **Union**, also called alternation, represented by `|`:

	```parserlib
	x ::= y | z     // x matches either y or z 
	```

#### Precedence

repetition, union, concatenation

e.g. Hostname

```parserlib
url ::= 'http://' hostname '/'
hostname ::= 'mit.edu' | 'stanford.edu' | 'google.com'
```

### More grammar operators

- **0 or 1 occurrence** is represented by `?`:

	```parserlib
	x ::= y?       // an x is a y or is the empty string
	```

- **1 or more occurrences** is represented by `+`:

	```parserlib
	x ::= y+       // an x is one or more y
	```

- An **exact number of occurrences** is represented by `{n}`, and a **range of occurences** by `{n,m}`, `{n,}`, or `{,m}`:

	```parserlib
	x ::= y{3}     // an x is three y
	x ::= y{,4}    // an x is at most four y
	```

- A **character class** `[...]` represents the set of single-character strings matching any of the characters listed in the square brackets:

	```parserlib
	x ::= [aeiou]  // equivalent to  x ::= 'a' | 'e' | 'i' | 'o' | 'u'
	```

- **Ranges of characters** can be described compactly using `-`:

	```parserlib
	x ::= [a-ckx-z]    // equivalent to  x ::= 'a' | 'b' | 'c' | 'k' | 'x' | 'y' | 'z'
	```

- An **inverted character class** `[^...]` represents the set of single-character strings matching a character *not* listed in the brackets:

	```parserlib
	x ::= [^a-c]  // equivalent to  x ::= 'd' | 'e' | 'f' | ... | '0' | '1' | '2' | ... | '!' | '@' | ... (all other possible characters)
	```

e.g. Hostname

```parserlib
url ::= 'http://' hostname '/'
hostname ::= word '.' word
word ::= [a-z]+
```

### Recursion in grammars

e.g. Hostname

```parserlib
url ::= 'http://' hostname (':' port)? '/' 
hostname ::= word '.' hostname | word '.' word
port ::= [0-9]+
word ::= [a-z]+
```

Using the repetition operator, we could also write `hostname` without recursion, like this:

```parserlib
hostname ::= (word '.')+ word
```



## Markdown and HTML

**Markdown:**

```text
This is _italic_.
```

(To learn about Markdown, see the [Markdown syntax documentation](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax) or [*Markdown* on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown).)

**HTML:**

```html
Here is an <i>italic</i> word.
```

(To learn about HTML, see the [HTML Living Standard](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/), or [*HTML* on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML).)



## Regular expressions

- ***Regular* grammar: Single Production**

	- by substituting every nonterminal (except the root one) with its righthand side, you can reduce it down to a single production for the root, with **only terminals and operators on the right-hand side**.

		```parserlib
		url ::= 'http://' ([a-z]+ '.')+ [a-z]+ (':' [0-9]+)? '/' 
		```

- **Regular expressions / Regexes**

	- **remove quotes and spaces**

	- **special characters**

		```parserlib
		.   // matches any single character (but sometimes excluding newline, depending on the regex library)
		
		\d  // matches any digit, same as [0-9]
		\s  // matches any whitespace character, including space, tab, newline
		\w  // matches any word character including underscore, same as [a-zA-Z_0-9]
		```

	- **Backslash: “escape” an operator or special character**

		```parserlib
		\.  \(  \)  \*  \+  \|  \[  \]  \\
		```

	- **`[]` to "escape"**

		```parserlib
		[.]  [*]
		```

		- characters that are **special to the character-class syntax**, like `[`, `]`, `^`, `-`, and `\`, still need to be escaped by a backslash to be used literally.

e.g. Hostname 

```parserlib
http://([a-z]+\.)+[a-z]+(:[0-9]+)?/
```



### Using regular expressions in practice

- see [`String.split`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/String.html#split(java.lang.String)), [`String.matches`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/String.html#matches(java.lang.String)), [`java.util.regex.Pattern`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/regex/Pattern.html)

- Replace all runs of spaces in a string `s` with a single space:

	```java
	String singleSpacedString = s.replaceAll(" +", " ");
	```

- Match a URL:

	```java
	if (s.matches("http://([a-z]+\\.)+[a-z]+(:[0-9]+)?/")) {}
	```

	- match a literal period `.`
		- first escape it as `\.` to protect it from being interpreted as **the regex match-any-character operator**
		- further escape it as `\\.` to protect the backslash from being interpreted as **a Java string escape character**.

- Extract parts of a date like `"2020-03-18"`:

	```java
	String s = "2020-03-18";
	Pattern regex = Pattern.compile("(?<year>\\d{4})-(?<month>\\d{2})-(?<day>\\d{2})");
	Matcher m = regex.matcher(s);
	if (m.matches()) {
	    String year = m.group("year");
	    String month = m.group("month");
	    String day = m.group("day");
	    // Matcher.group(name) returns the part of s that matched (?<name>...)
	}
	```

	- [*named capturing groups*](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#groupname) like `(?<year>...)`

	- another example

		```java
		"(?<houseNumber>[0-9]+) (?<streetName>.*) (?<streetType>(Rd|St|Ave|Ln))"
		```



### Context-free grammars

- In general, a language that can be expressed with our system of grammars is called context-free. 

	- [Not all context-free languages are also regular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chomsky_hierarchy)

	- any language with nested structure (like nesting parentheses or braces) is context-free but not regular. e.g. Java:

		```parserlib
		statement ::= 
		  '{' statement* '}'
		| 'if' '(' expression ')' statement ('else' statement)?
		| 'for' '(' forinit? ';' expression? ';' forupdate? ')' statement
		| 'while' '(' expression ')' statement
		| 'do' statement 'while' '(' expression ')' ';'
		| 'try' '{' statement* '}' ( catches | catches? 'finally' '{' statement* '}' )
		| 'switch' '(' expression ')' '{' switchgroups '}'
		| 'synchronized' '(' expression ')' '{' statement* '}'
		| 'return' expression? ';'
		| 'throw' expression ';' 
		| 'break' identifier? ';'
		| 'continue' identifier? ';'
		| expression ';' 
		| identifier ':' statement
		| ';'
		```



## Summary


Machine-processed textual languages are ubiquitous in computer science. Grammars are the most popular formalism for describing such languages, and regular expressions are an important subclass of grammars that can be expressed without recursion.

The topics of today’s reading connect to our three properties of good software as follows:

- **Safe from bugs.** Grammars and regular expressions are declarative specifications for strings and streams, which can be used directly by libraries and tools. These specifications are often simpler, more direct, and less likely to be buggy than parsing code written by hand.
- **Easy to understand.** A grammar captures the shape of a sequence in a form that is easier to understand than hand-written parsing code. Regular expressions, alas, are often not easy to understand, because they are a one-line reduced form of what might have been a more understandable regular grammar.
- **Ready for change.** A grammar can be easily edited, but regular expressions, unfortunately, are much harder to change, because a complex regular expression is cryptic and hard to understand.]



## *Thinking*

这一讲介绍了Grammars（文法）和Regexes（正则表达式）。作为定义机器处理文本的格式化的方式。之后的parser一讲应该会更详细的介绍其应用。

另外可以看到java的文法可以表示为本讲介绍的Grammars，因此是上下文无关文法（自然语言为上下文有关文法）。

- 一个方面来说，Grammars可以作为理解编程语言的形式文法的精确方式
- 另一个方面来说，可以作为理解人工智能的一个interface



# <u>Reading 18: Parsers</u>

##  Parser generators

see Reading

## A ParserLib grammar

see Reading

## Whitespace

```parserlib
// the IntegerExpression grammar
@skip whitespace {
    expr ::= sum ;
    sum ::= primary ('+' primary)* ;
    primary ::= number | '(' sum ')' ;
}
whitespace ::= [ \t\r\n]+ ;
number ::= [0-9]+ ;
```



## Generating the parser

[Javadoc documentation for ParserLib](http://6031.mit.edu/parserlib/3.2.0/doc/) can be found online.



## Constructing an abstract syntax tree

- the definition of the recursive data type that represents integer arithmetic expressions:

	```python
  IntegerExpression = Number(n:int)
                      + Plus(left:IntegerExpression, right:IntegerExpression)
  ```

- When a recursive data type represents a language this way, it is often called an *abstract syntax tree*.

## Left recursion and other ParserLib limitations

see Reading



## Summary

The topics of today’s reading connect to our three properties of good software as follows:

- **Safe from bugs.** A grammar is a declarative specification for strings and streams, which can be implemented automatically by a parser generator. These specifications are often simpler, more direct, and less likely to be buggy than parsing code written by hand.
- **Easy to understand.** A grammar captures the shape of a sequence in a form that is compact and easier to understand than hand-written parsing code.
- **Ready for change.** A grammar can be easily edited, then run through a parser generator to regenerate the parsing code.



## *Thinking*

这一讲介绍了Parser，主要是Java使用的ParserLib，主要是一些技术细节的介绍，不做赘述。



# <u>Reading 19: Programming with ADTs</u>

## Recipes for programming

### **Writing a method**:

1. **Spec.** Write the spec, including
	1. **the method signature** (name, argument types, return types, exceptions), and
	2. **the precondition and the postcondition** as a Javadoc comment
2. **Test.** Create systematic test cases and put them in a JUnit class
	1. **puts pressure on your spec**
		1. You may have to go back and change your spec, by thinking about how a client would call the method
		2. steps 1 and 2 iterate until you’ve got a better spec and some good test cases.
	2. Make sure at least **some of your tests are *failing* at first**.
3. **Implement.** 
	1. **puts pressure on both the tests and the specs**
		1. may require changing the implementation, the tests, and the specs, and bouncing back and forth among them.

### **Writing an abstract data type**:

1. **Spec.** Write specs for the operations of the datatype
	1. may include a datatype definition
2. **Test.** 
	1. **puts pressure on the spec**
		1. may need operations you hadn’t anticipated, so you’ll have to add them to the spec.
3. **Implement.** 
	1. **Choose rep.** 
		1. the private fields of a class, or the variants of a recursive datatype
		2. the rep invariant and abstraction function as a comment
	2. **Assert rep invariant.**
		1. Implement a `checkRep()` method that enforces the rep invariant.
	3. **Implement operations.**
		1. make sure to call `checkRep()` in them

### **Writing a program** (consisting of ADTs and static methods):

1. **Choose datatypes.**
	1. **Mutability**: Decide which ones will be mutable and which immutable.
2. **Choose static methods.**
	1. **`main`**: Write your top-level `main` method and break it down into smaller steps.
3. **Spec.** Spec out the ADTs and methods.
	1. Keep the ADT operations simple and few at first.
4. **Test.** 
5. **Implement simply first.** 
	1. **simple, brute-force representations**
		1. to put pressure on the specs and the tests
		2. try to pull your whole program together **as soon as possible**
	2. **skip the advanced features for now**
		1. Skip performance optimization. Skip corner cases.
	3. **keep a to-do list of what you have to revisit.**
6. **Iterate**.
	1. reimplement, optimize, redesign if necessary.

## *Thinking*

这一讲主要是对之前内容的一个系统性的梳理。



# <u>PSet4. Expressivo</u>

## *Thinking*

这个problem set依然是对之前学习的内容的整合，如何使用ADT来进行程序设计和实现。但有一个最主要的功能就是Parser（语法剖析）。使用了6.031教师写的parserlib库，sp16的版本是使用[ANTLR](http://web.mit.edu/6.005/www/sp16/classes/18-parser-generators/)实现的，需要的时候可以去查看。

想起了6.009的时候写过一个简单的interpreter（解释器），当时的parser是手动完成的，通过grammar和AST（抽象语法树）进行的parsing确实更形式化（formalized），因此可以更好地满足6.031的三个要求。

课程笔记：

- 建议使用edx上MITx 6.005.2x的problem set1，但是里边包含的parserlib库无法直接在AST中排除@skip的节点，使用了最新6.031提供的parserlib文件可以解决这个问题
- 当然如果使用sp16的problem set3则没有这个问题

































