# <u>Reading 20: Concurrency</u>

##  Two models for concurrent programming

**Shared memory.**

- A and B might be two processors (or processor cores) in the same computer, sharing the same physical memory.
- A and B might be two programs running on the same computer, sharing a common filesystem with files they can read and write.
- A and B might be two threads in the same Java program (we’ll explain what a thread is below), sharing the same Java objects.

**Message passing.**

- A and B might be two computers in a network, communicating by network connections.
- A and B might be a web browser and a web server – A opens a connection to B and asks for a web page, and B sends the web page data back to A.
- A and B might be an instant messaging client and server.
- A and B might be two programs running on the same computer whose input and output have been connected by a [pipe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anonymous_pipe), like `ls | grep` typed into a command prompt.



## Processes, threads, time-slicing

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/20-concurrency/#processes_threads_time-slicing)

## Starting a thread in Java

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/20-concurrency/#starting_a_thread_in_java) for Java code

## Anonymous classes

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/20-concurrency/#anonymous_classes) for Java code

**<u>anonymous classes are good for short one-off implementations of a method</u>**

- Advantages
	- If we’re only using the comparator in this one piece of code
	- A reader no longer has to search elsewhere for the details of the comparator
- Disadvantages
	- If we need the same comparator more than once, a named class is more DRY.
	- If the anonymous class is long, it interrupts the surrounding code.

## Using an anonymous `Runnable` to start a thread

e.g.

```java
new Thread(new Runnable() {
    public void run() {
        System.out.println("Hello from a thread!");
    }
}).start();
```

go further with Java’s [lambda expressions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/lambdaexpressions.html)

```java
new Thread(() -> System.out.println("Hello from a thread!")).start();
```

## Race condition

These kinds of bugs are [*heisenbugs*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heisenbug), which are nondeterministic and hard to reproduce, as opposed to a *bohrbug*, which shows up repeatedly whenever you look at it.

## Summary

- Concurrency: multiple computations running simultaneously
- Shared-memory & message-passing paradigms
- Processes & threads
	- Process is like a virtual computer; thread is like a virtual processor
- Race conditions
	- When correctness of result (postconditions and invariants) depends on the relative timing of events

These ideas connect to our three key properties of good software mostly in bad ways. Concurrency is necessary but it causes serious problems for correctness. We’ll work on fixing those problems in the next few readings.

- **Safe from bugs.** Concurrency bugs are some of the hardest bugs to find and fix, and require careful design to avoid.
- **Easy to understand.** Predicting how concurrent code might interleave with other concurrent code is very hard for programmers to do. It’s best to design your code in such a way that programmers don’t have to think about interleaving at all.
- **Ready for change.** Not particularly relevant here.

## *Thining*

本讲开始介绍并发（concurrency）。15-213里的知识可以帮助理解，这里的bug：

- 一方面原因是不同threads中间的interleaving
- 一方面很难debug的原因是高级语言的代码转换为机器语言后通常会变成数量更多的指令，而这些指令间的interleaving导致的bug只能在机器语言（汇编语言）的层面被发现。



# <u>Reading 21: Thread Safety</u>

### Four Ways

- **Confinement.** Don’t share variables or data between threads.
- **Immutability.** Make the shared variables unreassignable or the shared data immutable. We’ve talked a lot about immutability already, but there are some additional requirements for concurrent programming that we’ll talk about in this reading.
- **Threadsafe data type.** Encapsulate the shared data in an existing threadsafe data type that does the coordination for you.
- **Synchronization.** Use synchronization to keep the threads from accessing shared variables or data at the same time. Synchronization is what you need to build your own threadsafe data type.

## What threadsafe means

it "*<u>behaves correctly</u>*" when used from multiple threads, "<u>*regardless of how those threads are executed*</u>", and "<u>*without demanding additional coordination*</u>" from the calling code.

- “Behaves correctly” means satisfying its specification and preserving its rep invariant.
- “Regardless of how threads are executed” means threads might be on multiple processors or timesliced on the same processor.
- And “without additional coordination” means that the data type can’t put preconditions on its caller related to timing, like “you can’t call `get()` while `set()` is in progress.”
	- e.g. `Iterator`’s specification says that you can’t modify a collection at the same time as you’re iterating over it (except using the iterator’s own `remove` method)

##  Strategy 1: confinement

- **Be careful: reference confinement**
	- the variable is thread confined, but if it’s an object reference, you also need to check the object it points to.
	- If the object is mutable, then we want to check that the object is confined as well

### Avoid global variables

- **avoid static variables**
	- If you have static variables in your program, then you have to make an argument that only one thread will ever use them
	- Better, you should eliminate the static variables entirely.

### Confinement and anonymous classes

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/21-thread-safety/#confinement_and_anonymous_classes) for useful details

## Strategy 2: immutability

- **<u>Definition of immutability should be more strict for concurrency</u>**
	- Locks (future reading)

### Threadsafe immutability

- no mutator methods
- all fields declared `private` and `final`
- no [representation exposure](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/11-abstraction-functions-rep-invariants/#invariants)
- no mutation whatsoever of mutable objects in the rep – not even [beneficent mutation](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/11-abstraction-functions-rep-invariants/#beneficent_mutation)

## Strategy 3: using threadsafe data types

- common to find **two mutable data types that do the same thing** in the Java API
	- threadsafe data types usually incur a performance penalty compared to an unsafe type.

### Threadsafe collections

- **Threadsafe Wrappers: make each method of the collection atomic**
	- **Don’t circumvent the wrapper.**
	- **Iterators are still not threadsafe.**
	- **atomic operations aren’t enough to prevent races**
		- races by interleaving between multiple operations

- [Wrapper Collections](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/implementations/wrapper.html) 
- [Concurrent Collections](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/collections.html) 

## Make a safety argument

## *Thinking*

这一讲讨论了保证thread safty的三种方法，下一讲会讨论第四种，即synchronization，其中一种方法在15-213中讨论过，不过类似于sinchronized wrapper，会极大消耗系统的资源。



# <u>Reading 22: Locks and Synchronization</u>

## Java Lock

```java
Object lock = new Object();

synchronized (lock) { // thread blocks here until lock is free
    // now this thread has the lock
    balance = balance + 1;
} // exiting the block releases the lock
```

## Monitor pattern

guard the entire rep of a class by wrapping all accesses to the rep inside `synchronized (this)`.

### Method Signature

```java
...
    public SimpleBuffer() {
        text = "";
        checkRep();
    }
    public synchronized void insert(int position, String insertion) {
        text = text.substring(0, position) + insertion + text.substring(position);
        checkRep();
    }
...
```

In the Java Tutorials, read:

- [Synchronized Methods](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/syncmeth.html) (1 page)
- [Intrinsic Locks and Synchronization](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/locksync.html) (1 page)

[*reentrant locks*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reentrant_mutex)

## Thread safety argument with synchronization

```java
public class SimpleBuffer implements EditBuffer {
  	private String text;
	  ...
    // Thread safety argument:
    //   all accesses to text happen within SimpleBuffer methods,
    //   which are all guarded by SimpleBuffer's lock
```

### Locking discipline

1. Every shared mutable variable must be guarded by some lock. The data may not be read or written except inside a synchronized block that acquires that lock.
2. If an invariant involves multiple shared mutable variables (which might even be in different objects), then all the variables involved must be guarded by the *same* lock. Once a thread acquires the lock, the invariant must be reestablished before releasing the lock.

The `synchronized` keyword is not a panacea. Thread safety requires a discipline — using confinement, immutability, or locks to protect shared data. And that discipline needs to be written down, or maintainers won’t know what it is.

## Deadlock rears its ugly head

- **<u>*In order to encounter deadlock, threads must try to acquire locks in different orders, creating a cycle in the graph of who-is-waiting-for-who.*</u>**

- **<u>The monitor pattern unfortunately makes deadlock easy to happen</u>**

### Deadlock solution 1: lock ordering

- First, it’s not modular — the code has to know about all the locks in the system, or at least in its subsystem.
- Second, it may be difficult or impossible for the code to know exactly which of those locks it will need before it even acquires the first one.

### Deadlock solution 2: coarse-grained locking

- Coarse-grained locks can have a significant performance penalty.

## Concurrency in practice

### Strategies

- **Library data structures** either use no synchronization (to offer high performance to single-threaded clients, while leaving it to multithreaded clients to add locking on top) or the monitor pattern.
- **Mutable data structures with many parts** typically use either coarse-grained locking or thread confinement.
- **Search** often uses immutable datatypes.
- **Operating systems** often use fine-grained locks in order to get high performance, and use lock ordering to deal with deadlock problems.



## Summary

- **Debugging is not deffective**
	- Heisenbugs will skitter away as soon as you try to pin them down
	- And threads can interleave their operations in so many different ways that you will never be able to test even a small fraction of all possible executions.
- Reading Contents
	- 
		Make thread safety arguments about your datatypes, and document them in the code.
	- Acquiring a lock allows a thread to have exclusive access to the data guarded by that lock, forcing other threads to block — as long as those threads are also trying to acquire that same lock.
	- The *monitor pattern* guards the rep of a datatype with a single lock that is acquired by every method.
	- Blocking caused by acquiring multiple locks creates the possibility of deadlock.



## *Thinking*

线程交错即为多线程处理和服务器的代价，甚至没有清晰coherent的规则来处理，工程经验大概很重要。

本讲介绍了第四种处理的方法：synchronization，在15-213中有介绍其中一种实现的具体算法。



# <u>Reading 23: Queues and Message-Passing</u>

## Message passing between threads

Java provides the [`BlockingQueue`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/concurrent/BlockingQueue.html) interface for queues with blocking operations.

- **`put(e)`** *blocks* until it can add element `e` to the end of the queue (if the queue does not have a size bound, `put` will not block).
- **`take()`** *blocks* until it can remove and return the element at the head of the queue, waiting until the queue is non-empty.

*producer-consumer design pattern*

Java provides two implementations of `BlockingQueue`:

- [`ArrayBlockingQueue`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/concurrent/ArrayBlockingQueue.html) is a fixed-size queue that uses an array representation. Using `put` to add an item to the queue will block if the queue is full.
- [`LinkedBlockingQueue`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/concurrent/LinkedBlockingQueue.html) is a growable queue using a linked-list representation. If no maximum capacity is specified, the queue will never fill up, so `put` will never block.

## Message passing example

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/23-queues/#message_passing_example) for code

## Stopping

- Method 1

	- we might change the type of elements on the requests queue to an ADT:

		```
		FridgeRequest = DrinkRequest(n:int) + StopRequest
		```

		with operations:

		```
		drinksRequested : FridgeRequest → int
		shouldStop : FridgeRequest → boolean
		```

- Method 2
	- to signal a thread that it should stop working by calling that thread’s [`interrupt()`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Thread.html#interrupt()) method.
		- If the target thread is blocked waiting, the method it’s blocked in will throw an [`Interrupted­Exception`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/InterruptedException.html). That’s why we have to try-catch that exception almost any time we call a blocking method.

## Thread safety arguments with message passing

A thread safety argument with message passing might rely on:

- **Existing threadsafe data types** for the synchronized queue. This queue is definitely shared and definitely mutable, so we must ensure it is safe for concurrency.
- **Immutability** of messages or data that might be accessible to multiple threads at the same time.
- **Confinement** of data to individual producer/consumer threads. Local variables used by one producer or consumer are not visible to other threads, which only communicate with one another using messages in the queue.
- **Confinement** of mutable messages or data that are sent over the queue but will only be accessible to one thread at a time. This argument must be carefully articulated and implemented. Suppose one thread has some mutable data to send to another thread. If the first thread drops all references to the data like a hot potato as soon as it puts them onto a queue for delivery to the other thread, then only one thread will have access to those data at a time, precluding concurrent access.



## Race conditions

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/23-queues/#race_conditions) for e.g.

## Deadlock

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/23-queues/#deadlock) for e.g.

## Summary

- Rather than synchronize with locks, message passing systems synchronize on a shared communication channel, e.g. a stream or a queue.
- Threads communicating with blocking queues is a useful pattern for message passing within a single process.



# <u>Reading 24: Sockets & Networking</u>

## Client/server design pattern

## Sockets and streams

### IP addresses

- `127.0.0.1` is the [loopback](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loopback) or [localhost](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Localhost) address: it always refers to the local machine. Technically, any address whose first octet is `127` is a loopback address, but `127.0.0.1` is standard.

### Hostnames

- `localhost` is a name for `127.0.0.1`. When you want to talk to a server running on your own machine, talk to `localhost`.

### Port numbers

- Port 22 is the standard SSH port. When you connect to `athena.dialup.mit.edu` using SSH, the software automatically uses port 22.
- Port 25 is the standard email server port.
- Port 80 is the standard web server port. When you connect to the URL `http://web.mit.edu` in your web browser, it connects to `18.9.22.69` on port 80.

### Network sockets

The word “socket” arises by analogy to a hole for a physical plug, like a USB cable.

When a new client arrives at a listening socket, a fresh connected socket is created on the server to manage the new connection. The listening socket continues to exist, bound to the same port number and ready to accept another arriving client when the server calls `accept` on it again.

### Buffers

The network chops that chunk up into packets, and each packet is routed separately over the network.

### Byte streams

In Java, [`InputStream`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/InputStream.html) objects represent sources of data flowing into your program. For example:

- Reading from a file on disk with a [`File­Input­Stream`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/FileInputStream.html)
- User input from [`System.in`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/System.html#in)
- Input from a network socket

[`OutputStream`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/OutputStream.html) objects represent data sinks, places we can write data to. For example:

- [`FileOutputStream`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/FileOutputStream.html) for saving to files
- [`System.out`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/System.html#out) for normal output to the user
- [`System.err`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/System.html#err) for error output
- Output to a network socket

### Character streams

In Java, [`Reader`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/Reader.html) and [`Writer`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/Writer.html) represent incoming and outgoing streams of Unicode characters. For example:

- [`FileReader`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/FileReader.html) and [`FileWriter`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/FileWriter.html) treat a file as a sequence of characters rather than bytes
- the wrappers [`InputStreamReader`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/InputStreamReader.html) and [`OutputStreamWriter`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/io/OutputStreamWriter.html) adapt a byte stream into a character stream

*character encoding*

- For network communication, [UTF-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8) is the right choice.
- explicitly specify the character encoding whenever you construct a `Reader` or `Writer` object.

### Blocking

- When an incoming socket’s buffer is empty, calling `read` blocks until data are available.
- When the destination socket’s buffer is full, calling `write` blocks until space is available.

## Using network sockets in Java

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/24-sockets-networking/#using_network_sockets_in_java) for code

## Wire protocols

### Telnet client

`telnet` is a utility that allows you to make a direct network connection to a listening server and communicate with it via a terminal interface.

### HTTP

[Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol) is the language of the World Wide Web.

### SMTP

[Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Mail_Transfer_Protocol) is the protocol for sending email

### Designing a wire protocol

## Testing client/server code

### Separate network code from data structures and algorithms

If those ADTs will need to be used concurrently from multiple threads

- use [message passing with threadsafe queues](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/23-queues/) if possible, 
- [synchronization](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/22-locks/) if necessary, 
- or the [thread safety strategies of confinement, immutability, and existing threadsafe data types](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/21-thread-safety/).

### Separate socket code from stream code

- This design allows you to test the module by connecting it to streams that don’t come from a socket.

## *Thinking*

本讲介绍了Network的一些知识，基本上就是15.213中Network的Java版。

# <u>Reading 25: Callbacks</u>

### first-class functions

callbacks are an example of a bigger idea, *first-class functions*, or treating functions just like data: passing them as parameters, returning them as results, and storing them in variables and data structures.

## Input handling in a graphical user interface (GUI)

```java
JButton playButton = new JButton("Play");

playButton.addActionListener(new ActionListener() {
    public void actionPerformed(ActionEvent event) {
        playSound();
    } 
});
```

GUI event handling is an instance of the *Listener pattern*

- An event source generates (or *publishes*) a stream of discrete events, which correspond to state transitions in the source.
- One or more listeners register interest (*subscribe*) to the stream of events, providing a function to be called when a new event occurs.

In this example:

- the [`JButton`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.desktop/javax/swing/JButton.html) is the event source;
- its events are button presses;
- the listener is the anonymous `ActionListener` instance
- the function called when the event happens is `actionPerformed`

The control flow through a graphical user interface proceeds like this:

- A top-level *event loop* reads input from mouse and keyboard. In Java and most graphical user interface toolkits, this loop is actually hidden from you. It’s buried inside the toolkit, often running on a separate thread created by the toolkit
- Each listener does its thing (which might involve e.g. modifying objects in the view tree), and then *returns immediately to the event loop*.

Every GUI object generates events, often as a result of some combination of low-level input events. For example:

- `JButton` sends an action event when it is pressed (whether by mouse or keyboard)
- `JList` sends a selection event when the selected element changes (whether by mouse or by keyboard)
- `JTextField` sends change events when the text inside it changes for any reason

## Callbacks

- The `actionPerformed` listener function we saw in the previous section is an example of a general design pattern, a *callback*.
- A callback is a function that a client provides to a module for the module to call.
	- in contrast to normal control flow, in which the client is doing all the calling



## Route handling in a web server

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/25-callbacks/#route_handling_in_a_web_server) for code

## First-class functions

- **Definition**
	- Using callbacks requires a programming language in which functions are *first-class*, which means they can be treated like any other value in the language: passed as parameters, returned as return values, and stored in variables and data structures.
- **e.g.**
	- The [`Runnable`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Runnable.html) object that you pass to a [`Thread`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Thread.html) constructor is a first-class function, `void run()`.
	- The [`Comparator`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Comparator.html) object that you pass to a sorted collection (e.g. [`SortedSet`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/SortedSet.html)) is a first-class function, `int compare(T o1, T o2)`.
	- The `ActionListener` object that we passed to the `JButton` above is a first-class function, `void actionPerformed(ActionEvent e)`.
	- The `HttpHandler` object that we passed to the `HttpServer` above is a first-class function, `void handle(HttpExchange exchange)`.

This design pattern is called a ***functional object***, an object whose purpose is to represent a function.

### Lambda expressions

instead of writing:

```java
new Thread(new Runnable() {
    public void run() {
        System.out.println("Hello!");
    }
}).start();
```

we can use a lambda expression:

```java
new Thread(() -> {
    System.out.println("Hello!");
}).start();
```

[Syntax of Lambda Expressions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/lambdaexpressions.html#syntax)

**you can only use a lambda when the Java compiler can verify two things:**

1. It must be able to determine the type of the functional object the lambda will create. In this example, the compiler sees that the `Thread` constructor takes a `Runnable`, so it will infer that the type must be `Runnable`.
2. This inferred type must be a *functional interface*: an interface with only one (abstract) method. In this example, `Runnable` indeed only has a single method — `void run()` — so the compiler knows the code in the body of the lambda belongs in the body of a `run` method of a new `Runnable` object.

## Concurrency in event processing systems

- Java GUI
	- Java’s graphical user interface library automatically creates a single thread as soon as a GUI object is created. This *event-handling thread* is different from the program’s main thread. It runs the event loop that is reading from the mouse and keyboard, and calls listener callbacks.
- Java `HttpServer`
	- Likewise, the `HttpServer` class creates a new thread to listen for incoming connections and parse their HTTP requests, and then call the route handler callbacks.

## Implementing an event source

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/25-callbacks/#implementing_an_event_source) for code



## Summary

Callbacks are our first example of first-class functions, where we treat functions just as we treat data: passing them to and returning them from other functions, and storing them to call later.

Callbacks make code more **ready for change** by allowing clients to provide their own code to run when an event occurs, so that the behavior doesn’t have to be hard-coded into the implementation beforehand.

Writing a single giant input loop to handle every possible event in a large system is neither **safe from bugs** nor **easy to understand**: that single piece of code becomes an all-knowing all-controlling behemoth. Callbacks allow each module in the system to be responsible for their own events.



## *Thinking*

本讲介绍了callback（回调）作为first-class function（第一类函数）的一个例子。这是一个可以抽象化的概念，允许底层代码调用在高层定义的字程序。例如对于sort方法来说，可以传递一个Comparator的实现。这个概念在图形用户界面（GUI）、Route Handling（路由处理）和其他的事件处理系统（event processing systems）的并发中都有应用。



# <u>Reading 26: Map, Filter, Reduce</u>

## Abstracting out control flow

### Map/filter/reduce abstraction

a design pattern that substantially **simplifies** the implementation of functions that **operate over sequences of elements.**

### Streams

Java has an abstract datatype [`Stream<E>`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/stream/Stream.html) that represents a sequence of elements of type `E`.

## Map

**map : Stream<‍E> × (E → F) → Stream<‍F>**

For example:

```java
List<Integer> list = List.of(1, 4, 9, 16);
Stream<Integer> s = list.stream();
Stream<Double> t = s.map(x -> Math.sqrt(x));
```

***method call chaining***: the same expression more compactly as:

```java
List.of(1, 4, 9, 16).stream()
    .map(x -> Math.sqrt(x))
```

Another example of a map:

```java
List.of("A", "b", "C").stream()
   .map(s -> s.toLowerCase())
```

## Method references

***method reference***: eliminate the level of indirection by referring to the `sqrt` method directly:

```java
List.of(1, 4, 9, 16).stream()
    .map(Math::sqrt)
```

- the `::` between the class name and method name, rather than the usual `.` 
	- which distinguishes the method reference from an ordinary method call or field lookup.
- [**method references**](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/methodreferences.html) in the Java Tutorials

### First-class function

- `apply()`

	- ```java
		(Math::sqrt).apply(25.0)` returns `5.0
		```

- assign functional object to varaible

	- ```java
		Function<Double,Double> mySquareRoot = Math::sqrt;
		mySquareRoot.apply(16.0); // returns 4.0
		```

### More ways to use map

`forEach` applies the function to each element of the stream, but does not collect their return values into a new stream:

```java
Stream<Thread> threads = threadList.stream();
threadList.stream().forEach(Thread::join);

Stream<Socket> sockets = socketList.stream();
sockets.forEach(Socket::close);
```

## Filter

tests each element with a unary predicate, [`Predicate<T>`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/function/Predicate.html), which represents functions from `T` to boolean.

**filter : Stream<‍E> × (E → boolean) → Stream<‍E>**

Examples:

```java
List.of('x', 'y', '2', '3', 'a').stream()
   .filter(Character::isLetter)
// returns the stream ['x', 'y', 'a']

List.of(1, 2, 3, 4).stream()
   .filter(x -> x%2 == 1)
// returns the stream [1, 3]

List.of("abc", "", "d").stream()
   .filter(s -> !s.isEmpty())
// returns the stream ["abc", "d"]
```

- Wrong e.g.

	```java
	List.of('a', '1', 'b', '2').stream()
	    .filter( ! Character::isDigit);
	```

	- Fixes

		```java
		List.of('a', '1', 'b', '2').stream()
		    .filter( c -> !Character.isDigit(c));
		```

	- or

		```java
		List.of('a', '1', 'b', '2').stream()
		    .filter( Predicate.not(Character::isDigit) );
		```

## Reduce

**reduce : Stream<‍E> × E × (E × E → E) → E**

Adding numbers is probably the most straightforward example:

```java
List.of(1,2,3).stream()
    .reduce(0, (x,y) -> x+y)
// computes (((0+1)+2)+3) to produce the integer 6
```

###  Initial value

1. In Java, the initial value can be omitted

2. So, the `reduce` operation has return type [`Optional`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Optional.html).

3. This makes it easier to use reducers like `max`

	```java
	List.of(5, 8, 3, 1).stream()
	    .reduce(Math::max)
	// computes max(max(max(5,8),3),1) and returns an Optional<Integer> value containing 8
	```

### Order of operations

- In Java, the operator is required to be associative, the implementation of `reduce` is free to choose any order of combination

### Reduction to another type

- Because Java leaves the order of combination unspecified, this requires *two* binary operators with slightly different type signatures:

	- **reduce : Stream<‍E> × F × (F × E → F) × (F × F → F) → F**

		```java
		List.of(1,2,3).stream()
		   .reduce(
		       "",                           // identity value
		       (String s, Integer n) -> s+n, // accumulator
		       (String s, String t) -> s+t   // combiner
		   )
		```



## finds all words in Java files in a project

see [Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/26-map-filter-reduce/#back_to_the_intro_example) for codes

- **Note that a stream can be consumed only once, and is not reusable.**

## Aux

### Concurrency

Java’s map/filter/reduce implementation supports concurrency automatically. We can take any `Stream` and create a parallelized version of it by calling [`parallel()`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/stream/BaseStream.html#parallel()):

```java
Stream<Path> paths = files.parallel().map(File::toPath);
```

Or on a collection, we can call [`parallelStream()`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Collection.html#parallelStream()).

[MapReduce](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MapReduce) is a pattern for parallelizing very large computations in this way, that require a cluster of machines to compute.

### Structured Query Language (SQL)

- Relational databases use the map/filter/reduce paradigm (where it’s called project/select/aggregate)

- A typical SQL query looks like this:

	```sql
	select max(pixels) from cameras where brand = "Nikon"
	```

	- `cameras` is a **sequence** (a list of rows, where each row has the data for one camera)

		`where brand = "Nikon"` is a **filter**

		`pixels` is a **map** (extracting just the pixels field from the row)

		`max` is a **reduce**

## Summary

This reading is about modeling problems and implementing systems with *immutable data* and operations that implement *pure functions*, as opposed to *mutable data* and operations with *side effects*. *Functional programming* is the name for this style of programming.

Functional programming is much easier to do when you have *first-class functions* in your language and you can build *higher-order functions* that abstract away control flow code.

## *Thinking*

本讲介绍了map-filter-reduce这种设计模式（design pattern）。在Java中被简化为 `steam` 的三个操作，而省去了loop语句。而这种简化则是基于fist-class function的（因此可以讲function作为parameter）

# <u>Problem Set5. Multiplayer Minesweeper</u>



这一个pset主要练习了多线程编程，以及第一个完全自己spec的class（虽然没有写完完整的doc和test。。。）

技术的细节来说就是网络和接口，这个在15-213中已经使用C语言实现过，这里使用Java，大的结构是一致的，而且两个课程都提供了足够的代码示例。这部分基本来说就是范式（或者说wrapper），按照它来就可以，未来使用的过程中自然就会熟悉。

多线程的问题主要还是interleaving（交错），避免的办法一个是synchronization/lock，使用modifier（使用this lock）或者使用自定义的object lock；另一个方法是message passing。这里使用的是lock。

- 出问题的是player数量，由于数量的增减和输出没有使用lock，使得每次测试数量的输出偶尔会有不同，数量增减本身的interleaving就可能导致错误的结果

另一个经验是，尽可能使用helper function或定义新的class来简化操作和输入输出的格式，例如对于board array的操作，由于坐标和行列的顺序是相反的，大量调用时极易出错：`board[y][x]`，而其他函数（如`neighbors`）的返回值坐标也需要拆分为x和y，使得这个操作进一步复杂：`board[neighbor.get(1)][neighbor.get(0)]`，而且也很容易违反DRY的准则

- 一个方法是定义两个`getValue(int x, int y)`和`getValue(List<Integer> coordinates)`的helper function，同样对于修改坐标值也定义两个这样的辅助函数
- 另一个方法是定义一个二维矩阵的类（或调用成熟的库），一劳永逸地解决二维矩阵的各种算法和风格问题（如DRY）





