# <u>Reading 27: Little Languages I</u>

### the bottom line:

1. when you need to solve a problem, 
2. instead of writing a *program* to solve just that one problem, 
3. **<u>*build a language that can solve a range of related problems.*</u>**

## Representing code as data

the [`Formula` datatype from *Recursive Data Types*](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/16-recursive-data-types/#another_example_boolean_formulas):

```text
Formula = Variable(name:String)
          + Not(formula:Formula)
          + And(left:Formula, right:Formula)
          + Or(left:Formula, right:Formula)
```

- Instead of

	```java
	p && q
	```

- **representing code as data**

	```
	BiFunction<Boolean,Boolean,Boolean> f = (p, q) -> p && q;
	```

## Building languages to solve problems

A *language* has greater flexibility than a mere *program*

- That’s the difference between writing `p && q` and devising a `Formula` type to represent the semantically-equivalent Boolean formula.
- And it’s the difference between writing a matrix multiplication function and devising a [`MatrixExpression` type](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/19-programming-with-adts/#problem_matrix_multiplication) to represent matrix multiplications — and store them, manipulate them, optimize them, evaluate them, and so on.

### *domain-specific language* (DSL)

- **Extrenal**: independent of any general-purpose programming language
	- ParserLib grammars, and the language of problem set 4
- **Internal**: embedded in a general-purpose programming language

## Music language

- Java APIs for playing music with the [MIDI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIDI) synthesizer

### Music data type

```text
Music = Note(duration:double, pitch:Pitch, instrument:Instrument)
        + Rest(duration:double)
        + Concat(m1:Music, m2:Music)
```

#### Composite

The composite pattern gives rise to a tree data structure, with primitives at the leaves and composites at the internal nodes.

#### Emptiness

We could introduce an `Empty` variant, but instead we’ll use a `Rest` of duration `0` to represent emptiness.



# <u>Reading 28: Interpreter vs. Visitor Pattern</u>

The goal of this reading is to introduce the **Visitor pattern**, another example of treating functions as *first-class values*, and an alternative implementation strategy for operations on recursive data types.

Visitors are a common feature of little languages implemented as recursive data types.

## Functions on recursive types

### Interpreter Pattern

- declare the operation as an instance method in the interface that defines the datatype, and
- implement the operation in each concrete variant.

In terms of the [Composite pattern](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/27-little-languages-1/#composite_pattern)

- composite variants (*e.g.* `Concat` in [`Music`](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/27-little-languages-1/#music_data_type), `Not` in [`Formula`](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/27-little-languages-1/#representing_code_as_data)) will implement the operation recursively, 
- and primitive variants (*e.g.* `Note` in `Music`, `Variable` in `Formula`) will implement base cases.

Dynamic Dispatch

- [Dynamic dispatch](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/12-interfaces-generics-enums/#overriding_and_dynamic_dispatch) of method calls in Java is what powers the Interpreter pattern.
- Understanding dynamic dispatch requires recalling the distinction between [declared type and actual type](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/16-recursive-data-types/#declared_type_vs_actual_type). 

### Downsides of Interpreter pattern

- **Harder to understand and debug:** For a complicated operation on a datatype with many variants, the code to implement the operation will be distributed across all the different variant classes.
- **Harder to change:** If we wish to add a new operation to our type, we must modify the interface and every implementing class.

## Pattern matching

```java
public static Set<String> variables(Formula f) {
    switch(f) {
    case Variable var:
        return singletonSet(var.name());
    case Not not:
        return variables(not.formula());
    case And and:
        return setUnion(variables(and.left()), variables(and.right()));
    case Or or:
        return setUnion(variables(or.left()), variables(or.right()));
    }
}
```

Unfortunately a `switch` structure like this is not [(yet?)](http://cr.openjdk.java.net/~briangoetz/amber/pattern-match.html) valid Java. There are many languages that do support *pattern matching* of instances to determine their underlying structure, but Java is not one of them.



## Visitor pattern

- 
	A visitor implements `switch` over types: the code above to implement `Variables­In­Formula` reads pretty closely to our [original goal of a `switch` statement](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/28-little-languages-2/#pattern_matching), but each case is given its own `on*Variant*` method.
- A visitor represents a function over a recursive type: we can create an instance of a particular `Formula­Function`, pass it around, apply it as needed, etc.
- A visitor also acts like an [iterator](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/08-immutability/#iterating_over_arrays_and_lists), walking over the tree structure of a `Formula` and applying a function to each node of the tree

```java
public interface Formula {

    public interface Visitor<R> {  // renamed from FormulaFunction<R>
        public R on(Variable var); // renamed from onVariable, onNot, onAnd, onOr
        public R on(Not not);
        public R on(And and);
        public R on(Or or);
    }

    public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor); // renamed from callFunction()

    // ... other operations ...
}

class Variable implements Formula {
    // ...
    @Override public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor) {
        return visitor.on(this);
    }

}
class Not implements Formula {
    // ...
    @Override public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor) {
        return visitor.on(this);
    }
}
class And implements Formula {
    // ...
    @Override public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor) {
        return visitor.on(this);
    }
}
class Or implements Formula {
    // ...
    @Override public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor) {
        return visitor.on(this);
    }
}

class VariablesInFormula implements Formula.Visitor<Set<String>> {
    @Override public Set<String> on(Variable var) {
        return singletonSet(var.name());
    }
    @Override public Set<String> on(Not not) {
        return not.formula().accept(this);
    }
    @Override public Set<String> on(And and) {
        return setUnion(and.left().accept(this), and.right().accept(this));
    }
    @Override public Set<String> on(Or or) {
        return setUnion(or.left().accept(this), or.right().accept(this));
    }
}
```

Calling it with:

```java
Formula f = ...;
Set<String> variables = f.accept(new VariablesInFormula());
```

We use [*double dispatch*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_dispatch), which means two method calls in succession:

- the first method call `accept` uses dynamic dispatch to reach a concrete variant (*e.g.* `And`, `Or`, etc.)
- the variant then makes a second method call `on` , also using dynamic dispatch, on the object representing the recursive function (*e.g.* `VariablesInFormula`, or some other implementation of `Visitor` (or `FormulaFunction` )).

### A visitor factory

The `makeVisitor()` method below takes *n* functional object arguments, one for each concrete variant in the type, and uses them as the implementations of the corresponding cases of an anonymous visitor class:

```java
/**
 * @return a visitor object whose on(T) method calls the onT function parameter, 
 *         for all T that are concrete variants of Formula
 */
public static <R> Formula.Visitor<R> makeVisitor(
        Function<Variable,R> onVariable,
        Function<Not,R> onNot,
        Function<And,R> onAnd,
        Function<Or,R> onOr
) {
    return new ▶▶A◀◀() {
        public R on(Variable var) { return onVariable.apply(var); }
        public R on(Not not) { return onNot.apply(not); }
        public R on(And and) { return onAnd.apply(and); }
        public R on(Or or) { return onOr.apply(or); }
    };
}
```

Now we can write `evaluate()` in a way that more closely resembles the `switch` statement:

```java
public static boolean evaluate(Formula formula, Map<String,Boolean> map) {
    return formula.accept(makeVisitor(
        (Variable var) -> map.get(var.name()),
        (Not not) -> ▶▶B◀◀,
        (And and) -> evaluate(and.left(), map)  &&  evaluate(and.right(), map),
        (Or or)   -> evaluate(or.left(),  map)  ||  evaluate(or.right(),  map) 
    ));
}
```

## Why visitor?

- The Interpreter pattern makes it easier to add new *variants*, because we don’t have to change any of our existing code: we just need to implement all the various operations as methods in the new variant class.
- The Visitor pattern makes it easier to add new *operations*. Instead of having to modify both the interface and every variant class, we just need to create a new, *e.g.*, `Formula.Visitor` implementation with all the code for our new operation.

## Summary

The Visitor pattern overcomes a missing feature in the Java language, giving us a type-safe way to represent and implement functions over a recursive data type as self-contained modules. The visitor instances are also [functional objects](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/25-callbacks/#first-class_functions), so we can naturally pass them around our program as values.

If we expect to add new operations to our recursive ADT in the future, using visitor makes our code ready for change without sacrificing the safety from bugs provided by static checking.

If we are building a *little language* where the ADT is designed for the purpose of allowing clients to define their own operations on our type from outside our implementation classes, visitor makes this possible.



## *Thinking*

对于递归数据类型，ADT的方法需要在所有variants里实现，这导致增加和维护方法变得很苦难，而Visitor Pattren使用两次动态分派（dynamic dispatch）使得针对不同variants的方法可以在一个函数类中实现。

- 先通过一个 `Visitor` 类作为具体方法类的interface，包含针对所有variants的方法，统一命名为 `on`
- ADT中设置一个 `Accept(Visitor)` 方法，这样所有ADT的方法都可以通过实现 `Visitor` ，再传入 `Accept()`，从而实现针对所有variants的方法
- 这样所有variants都只需要 `@Override Accept` 即可

相对Interpreter Pattern的劣势：

- 需要新增variant时， `Vistor`及其所有实现都需要增加对该variant的支持
- 同样的，在Interpreter Pattern中，需要新增方法时，所有ADT和其所有variants都需要增加对该方法的支持

### 组成

- 额外结构

	- ADT类中一个子接口类`Visitor<R>`，包含针对所有具体类的方法`on`的声明

		```java
			public interface Visitor<R> {
				public R on(Variable var);
		    ...
		  }
		```

	- ADT；类中一个`accept`方法，其参数类型为`Visitor<R>`，在所有具体类中实现

		```java
			public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor);
		```

		```java
		class Variable implements Formula {
		  ...
		  @Override public <R> R accept(Visitor<R> visitor) {
		  	return visitor.on(this);
		  }
		```

- 操作的实现

	- ADT类中一个实现`Visitor<R>`的子类作为真正的操作的类，包含针对所有具体类的方法`on`的实现

		```java
		class VariablesInFormula implements Formula.Visitor<Set<String>> {
		  @Override public Set<String> on(Variable var) {
		    return singletonSet(var.name());
		  }
		```

- 调用

	```java
	Formula f = ...;
	Set<String> variables = f.accept(new VariablesInFormula());
	```

- A visitor factory

	- 额外结构

		- ADT类中增加一个静态方法，其参数为针对所有具体类的函数对象，返回值为一个`Visitor<R>`对象，其中包含使用参数中函数对象的针对所有具体类的方法`on`的实现

			```java
			public static <R> Formula.Visitor<R> makeVisitor(
			  Function<Variable,R> onVariable,
			  ...
			){
			  return new Formula.Visitor<R>() {
			    public R on(Variable var) { return onVariable.apply(var); }
			    ...
			  }
			}
			```

	- 操作的实现

		- ADT类中增加一个静态方法，参数类型为该类，以及其他必要的参数，返回值为该类参数调用`accept(makeVisitor(lambdas))`，lambdas为针对所有具体类的lambda函数对象

			```java
			public static boolean evaluate(Formula formula, Map<String,Boolean> map) {
			  return formula.accept(makeVisitor(
			    (Variable var) -> map.get(var.name()),
			    ...
			  ));
			}
			```



# <u>Reading 29: Team Version Control</u>

## Using version control in a team

- **Communicate.** Tell your teammates what you’re going to work on. Tell them that you’re working on it. And tell them that you worked on it. Communication is the best way to avoid wasted time and effort cleaning up broken code.
- **Write specs.** Necessary for the things we care about in 6.031, and part of good communication.
- **Write tests.** Don’t wait for a giant pile of code to accumulate before you try to test it. Avoid having one person write tests while another person writes implementation (unless the implementation is a prototype you plan to throw away). Write tests first to make sure you agree on the specs. Everyone should take responsibility for the correctness of their code.
- **Run the tests.** Tests can’t help you if you don’t run them. Run them before you start working, run them again before you commit.
- **Automate.** You’ve already automated your tests with a tool like JUnit, but now you want to automate running those tests whenever the project changes. For 6.031 group projects, we provide Didit as a way to automatically run your tests every time a team member pushes to github.mit.edu. This also removes “it worked on my machine” from the equation: either it works in the automated build, or it needs to be fixed.
- **Review what you commit.** Use `git diff --staged` or a GUI program to see what you’re about to commit. Run the tests. Don’t use `commit -a`, that’s a great way to fill your repo with `println`s and other stuff you didn’t mean to commit. Don’t annoy your teammates by committing code that doesn’t compile, spews debug output, isn’t actually used, etc.
- **Pull before you start working.** Otherwise, you probably don’t have the latest version as your starting point — you’re editing an old version of the code! You’re guaranteed to have to merge your changes later, and you’re in danger of having to waste time resolving a merge conflict.
- **Sync up.** At the end of a day or at the end of a work session, make sure everyone has pushed and pulled all the changes, you’re all at the same commit, and everyone is satisfied with the state of the project.

